STARGAZER

Skill area: Science
Level: 3, 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

The Stargazer

You are the emperor's stargazer.  The emperor expects you to foretell
the future by looking at the constellations.  He also wants you to
predict the weather by peering at the stars.

As far as you know, you can't predict the future from the stars.  And
the only way the constellations can give you a weather report is if
you can't see them because of the clouds.  But the emperor wants a
stargazer, and you've learned some things from watching the sky.  Each
constellation has its own history, and people like to have you tell
them about it.

If you hope to keep your high-paying job with the emperor, the least
you can do is know where the constellations are.  Also, you should
know something about each one so you can impress the emperor with your
knowledge.

How to Play

The computer will present one of 32 constellations and ask for its
name.  Because constellations change position as the seasons progress,
the picture will be the one that best represents the constellation as
seen from the ground.  The computer will also state what month the
constellation looks like this, as well as telling which direction you
have to look if you're in North America.

Look at the constellation and see if you can determine its name from
its shape.  If you can, type the name of the constellation on the
computer keyboard and press RETURN.  If you aren't sure, make a guess
or hit the RETURN key.

If you can't guess the name of the constellation by its shape alone,
the computer will give you a clue that may help you identify the
constellation.  If the clue helps, type the answer on the keyboard.

Since the computer will count any misspelled name as a wrong answer,
refer to this list of the 32 constellations used in "Stargazer":

    Andromeda      Cassiopeia         Hercules    Pisces
    Aquarius       Cepheus            Hydra       Sagittarius
    Aquila         Cetus              Leo         Scorpius
    Aries          Corona Borealis    Lepus       Serpens
    Bootes         Cygnus             Libra       Taurus
    Cancer         Draco              Orion       Ursa Major
    Canis Major    Eridanus           Pegasus     Ursa Minor
    Capricornus    Gemini             Perseus     Virgo

If you still can't guess the constellation after receiving a clue,
press RETURN and the computer will tell you the name of the
constellation and let you look at its star pattern and name for a few
seconds.  Then the computer will give you another constellation to
guess.

You can quit playing at any time by entering END on the keyboard.
Your percentage score will not be affected if you quit before all
questions have been asked.

Scoring

You'll receive 10 points for each constellation you guess by its shape
alone, and 2 points for each constellation name you guess after
getting a due from the computer.

Your score will be given in two areas: the number of points, which
will appear in the Total Points category, and a Percentage Score.

If you don't do well the first time, try again.  Remember, it took
thousands of years for ancient societies to spot constellations in the
sky and develop stories about each one.
