THE RICH KING

For Parents and Teachers...

This game helps children practice addition.  It helps them sharpen
their concentration and memory.

A rich king goes from room to room in his castle, counting his
diamonds.  The children follow the king through the different-colored
rooms.  They count the diamonds in each of the rooms.  At the end they
add up the diamonds in all the rooms.

For Kids...

Once upon a time, there was a country named Cybernia.  The king of
Cybernia was a fat, little man.  But he was very, very rich.  All of
his riches were in the form of diamonds.  The king lived in a huge
castle.  And all the rooms of the castle were filled with diamonds.
Each room was a different color, so the king could remember where he
had been and not go back to the same room twice.

Every morning when the king woke up, the first thing he did was walk
through all the rooms of his castle to count his diamonds.  Every
night just before the king went to bed, he put on his pajamas and
slippers and brushed his teeth.  Then he walked through all his castle
rooms and counted his diamonds again.

At night the little king saw diamonds floating in his dreams.

The king had only one problem.  He wasn't very good at counting.  This
made the king very nervous.  Sometimes he was so nervous that he
couldn't sleep at night, and so, he could not dream about his
beautiful diamonds.

To make matters worse, every day the king got a new wagonload of
diamonds from the diamond miners in his kingdom.  And every day the
king had to spend lots of his diamonds to pay his bills.

The king was getting very jittery and very sleepy.  Then he came up
with a solution.  He would hire a diamond counter to help him count
his diamonds.  Whom did he hire?

*You!*

You are the king's diamond counter.  It is your job to follow the
little king through the rooms of his castle, counting the diamonds.

You can do this two ways.  Either you can count the diamonds one at a
time: 1, 2, 3, 4, and so on, through all the rooms.  Or, you can count
the diamonds in each room, write down the number on a piece of paper,
and then add up the numbers for all the rooms to get the total number
of diamonds.

Good luck!  If you get the number wrong, the king looks sad and moans.
He grabs your hand and leads you back through the rooms in the castle
to count the diamonds again.

Each time you get the number of diamonds right, the king smiles at
you, shouts "RIGHT!" and plays a happy tune on his royal whistle.
Maybe someday he will even give you a bag of diamonds as a reward!
