Abstract

Perhaps you know someone who has indicated that he or she would like
to learn programming.  In a limited way the game of Abstract gauges a
player's aptitude for programming because it tesets for deductive
reasoning ability.  It is just a game, and an amusing one to play; so
don't jeopardize friendships or career aspirations by reason of
anyone's consistent inability to win.

The game begins with an announcement by the computer that it is
holding a three-digit number in memory.  The player has twenty chances
to guess what the number is.  The first guess must necessarily be just
that, an arbitrary guess.  Following each entry a list of clues are
printed to show the relative accuracy of each of the digits in the
player's guess.

The clues that are possible, and their order of presentation is,
ASTUTE, ABSTRACT, and ASKEW.  For each of the player's digits that
corresponds exactly with that of the number being held in memory, the
clue ASTUTE will print.  Obviously, three astute is a winner.

Each of the digits of the player's guess is compared, one at a time,
with each digit of the computer's number.  For each of the player's
digits that has no match anywhere within the computer's number, the
clue that is printed is ABSTRACT.

Whenever a player's digit matches one of the computer's, but the digit
is in the wrong position, ASKEW indicates the misalignment.  What is
not revealed, however, is which of the digits prompts the different
clues, since the clues are always presented in the same sequence.

The three types of comparisons used to trigger the clues following
each entry are mutually exclusive.  By deductive reasoning, then, and
with an ounce or two of luck, the player may home in on the correct
number.  To do so merely requires that each guess be carefully
formulated based on the trail of clues provided with previous entries.

A few trial games might be necessary to fully grasp the significance
of the clues.  Interestingly, this tends to be less true with children
sometimes than for some adults.

It is important to be aware that no two digits of a guess should ever
be the same, and that the player should not enter a number having more
than three digits.  Either type of error will invoke an appropriate
message, but the guess is not counted as a turn.  The game ends when
the player's guess matches the computer's number exactly, and the
message is: YOU GOT IT.  Also, if the total number of guesses is less
than thirteen the number of turns used will be printed.  If thirteen
or more turns are taken, the ending message includes the sarcasm,
FINALLY!!!

In either event, after twenty attempts, the game ends with an option
to play again.  For those unfortunates who use up all twenty of the
permitted guesses without solving ABSTRACT, the ending routine will
reveal the elusive number that the computer has been holding.

[Note: This game is a near-clone of "Bagels", available in multiple
versions elsewhere in the collection.]
