(From Color Computer Magazine, September 1983.)

  Talk to bureaucrats, technocrats and pseudocats in their own
  language.
  
  by Glenn B. Knight

The often-maligned government bureaucrat deserves some respect.  He or
she is the reigning champion of the artform called "gobbledygook" --
that incomprehensible language that most of us would rather see die
off.

It is the bureaucrat who writes regulations and reports in which
phrases such as "integrated monitored projections" and "optional
third-generation time-phase" spice up the otherwise dull rhetoric.
The non-elected government officials tend to cloud every possible
issue.  They faithfuly follow the English non-standard which says,
"Why use only one well-chosen word when a half-dozen multi-syllabic
expressions will do?"

But now, we Color Computer owners have a way to fight back.  For years
we have been trying to get government officials to speak and write
English, only to be bombarded with "protected-coating specialist" for
painter and "direct-application environmental enhancement technician"
for street-sweeper.

By breaking their code we have been able to select 30 representative
and truly bureaucratic words which our trusty Color Computer turns
into random three-word phrases to use when we communicate with
government officials.  Since most of what bureaucrats have to say is
meaningless to begin with, it doesn't matter that your phrase is
totally unrelated to your subject.  The key fact to remember is that a
government official will never admit he or she doesn't understand the
phrase; he will just brush off the brief confusion it caued.  Your
letter or report will rise on the pompous scale.

This Thesaurus of government phrases is sub-titled "The Jargon
Generator," since it creates its own little language...

For those who still cling to the hope that English will some day again
become the language of our government, the Thesaurus does offer one
option -- you can choose the noun you wish to use.  The screen will
display the 10 nouns in the data bank, and you will be allowed to
choose one of those or type in a more appropriate noun of your own
choosing.  The program will then go on and find two modifiers for you
and display the complete phrase on screen.

For the novice programmer this is a mini tutorial.  I have found I
learn more about Color Basic by typing and debugging other people's
programs than by any of the more traditional methods.
