GUNNERY

This program has been around in various forms for a long time and is
also known as Artillery, Gunner, Tanks, Azimuth, and many other names.
This one was originally written for the TRS-80, but has been modified
to run perfectly on the TI-99/4A.  It is the culmination of many
programs I have seen in the past and includes some special innovations
that were included in The A to Z Book of Computer Games, by Thomas
Mclntire, (published by TAB BOOKS Inc.).  The mathematics involved are
unimportant, and here's how the game is played.

The player assumes the role of gunnery officer and is firing at a
target, which is a maximum of 60,000 meters distant.  The player's
objective is to strike the target by landing a shell within 100 meters
of it.  This is done by raising or lowering the hypothetical gun
barrel.  Elevation is input by the player in degrees and fractions of
degrees.  After you raise or lower the barrel, a shot is fired and the
computer spots the shell impact area, telling you whether it was long
or short and by how much.  By using these readings, you should be able
to zero in on the target and blow it up.  At the end of the explosion
sequence, you will be informed as to the number of shots it took to
score the hit.  The player with the fewest shots is the winner.

This is a game of skill and intelligence.  The actual distance
selected at the start of the program is determined by random chance.
However, based upon this distance figure, the player must use logic to
determine the barrel elevation.  As you play this game more and more,
you will become more adept at associating certain distances with
certain specific elevations.  Thus, your scores will improve as the
number of shots you take decreases.

Most programs of this type do not include sound effects.  However,
this one does.  Each time you input an elevation and press the enter
key, you will hear the sound of the shot being fired; and when you
strike the target, an explosion will be heard and the screen will go
black for a few seconds.  This is a very startling effect, so this
type of program will probably hold the player's interest for a longer
period than one without such effects.
