HYPERWAR

HYPERWAR is a major space simulation, which puts you in charge of
patrolling a cube-shaped sector of space, which is ten parsecs along
each side.  The enemy is the race known as the Dosznti. There is only
one Dosznti ship in this sector, and it is moving slowly through the
cube as you play. Although you cannot destroy the ship, you can kill a
number of individual Dosznti.  In fact, the aim of the game is to get
your "alien kill total" to the highest point possible before your
energy banks are exhausted.  Although there are many, many more
Dosznti in this sector than there are humans, the aliens are
notoriously bad shots, so your chance of wiping out a lot before your
mission is terminated is rather high.

You can only fire at the Dosznti when you are within three units of
their position.  Attempting to fire when they are out of range leads
only to the crew response "The Dosznti ship is not within range, sir."
You have a limited amount of energy, and each successful hit by an
alien craft diminishes your energy supply.

I will not explain the game in any more detail, because to do so would
diminish the enjoyment you'll get from playing it.  The "behavior of
space" does not change from game to game, so you should find you begin
to learn the tricks of space warfare after the first game, leading to
higher and higher scores as you continue to play it.  The game tends
to explain the rules to you as you play, and the screen display has
been organized to make it as clear as possible what is going on.
