SHADOW THIEVES

Next we have an adventure program which creates its own, stable map.
That is, the map does not change within a game, but is totally
different from game to game.  The game takes place underground, in a
maze of 20 caverns connected by tunnels.

Although the number of possible combinations is not infinite, it is so
huge (approaching the number of atoms in the universe) you would be
unlikely to ever strike the same cavern system in your lifetime.
However, the lack of true randomness in your random number generator
diminishes the total number of caverns you may visit, although you are
unlikely to stumble across the same one more than once.

CAVERN OF THE SHADOW THIEVES takes place in a very odd environment.
You are within the maze of 20 caverns, trying to get to cavern number
20.  Each cavern has four, and only four, tunnels leading from it to
other caverns.  Some of the tunnels are one-way, while others allow
you to travel back and forth.

Several of the tunnels will contain rare treasure, such as sparkling
amulets and platinum shields.  You can carry up to four items at a
time.  Other caverns are the homes of unusual inhabitants, such as
gruesome gnomes and zany zombies.  Each inhabitant will demand a toll
of a particular item.  If you are carrying the item, the inhabitant
takes it from you and allows you to pass.  The inhabitant also
disappears after being bribed, dropping the bribe, so you can revisit
that cavern later and pick up the object again if you like.

You should make a map as you work through the cavern system.  This
way, you'll know for example that cavern number five contains a crazy
centipede who wants a magic scroll, so that you can travel safely
through cavern five as soon as you manage to pick up a suitable
scroll.  The interconnections between the caverns, as I said, do not
change within a particular game so you can build your map with some
confidence.  Note that certain caves contain magic transportation
spells which will move you at random within the cavern system.

The only goal of this game is to get to cavern number twenty, and
you'll find the output from the program will assist you in this task,
reporting your position and possessions constantly.
