HEALTH

  How Healthy Are You?  This Program Tells You 

  by John Fernald 

Personal health is a subject that comes more and more into the
center-stage of interest each year.  A number of national publications
have featured articles on health in recent months and there are more
books showing up every day on how to look, and feel, more healthy.

The August 10, 1982 issue of Family Circle magazine published an
extensive self-test on health and I undertook to adapt it for use with
the 80C.  The test itself is based on a risk analysis developed by
Howard F. Hunt, Ph.D., and James R. White, Ph.D., of the University of
California, San Diego.  It is adapted from "The Blue Cross and Blue
Shield Guide To Staying Well," copyright Â©1982 by Blue Cross
Association and Blue Shield Association, published by Contemporary
Books, Inc.

While I am sure that it is possible for others to "fancy" up this
program, it does accomplish what it is intended to do, that is,
provide a health assessment.  To that end I believe it certainly
serves a good purpose, and if it helps only one of the Rainbow's
thousands of readers improve their health status, then the hours I
have spent writing it will be rewarded.

The program itself is easy to use.  Simply answer the questions. At
the end, you will get a score.  Responses to the questions, and the
weighted values they are assigned, should not be construed as a
hard-and-fast assessment of your physical health.  If you have any
concerns about your health, you should contact a physician.

In short Health, should not be considered a replacement for a visit to
a physician.  While it can give you certain general opinions about
your health status, it cannot give you either a "clean bill of health"
or detect any and all problems.
