THE COMPUTER CRAYON

For Parents and Teachers...

This game turns the computer into an electronic crayon and the TV
screen into a sketchpad.  This game appeals to all ages.  Yet even a
younger child can use the game to develop his or her artistic
abilities.  And it's a great imagination game.  The TV screen is
empty, and the child can fill it with whatever he or she dreams up.

For Kids...

Load the Crayon program and type RUN.

The Crayon color selection menu appears on the screen.  It can be a
yellow, green, blue, or red crayon, or it can be a special crayon that
makes all four colors.  When you have picked out the color of your
crayon, type the crayon number (1, 2, 3, 4, or 5), the screen will
darken (about the color of a chalkboard at school), and you can
immediately begin drawing.  The screen is an electronic sketchpad.
You can draw anything you want.

The way you draw is by using the arrow buttons on the right side of
the keyboard.  To draw upward you press the up-arrow (^) button.  To
draw downward you press the down-arrow (v) button.  To draw to the
right you press the right-arrow (->) button.  To draw to the left you
press the left-arrow (<-) button.

Try it out.

What happens when you come to the edge of the screen?  Right.  The
computer stops you.  You stay right there until you push a new arrow
button and draw in a different direction.

Now that you know how to draw, you need to know something else: how to
erase.  Erasing is as easy as drawing.  You decide which direction you
want to erase, you press the correct arrow button, and at the same
time, you hold down the SHIFT button (on either side of the keyboard).

Try erasing.  Backtrack over some of the lines you just drew on your
electronic paper. As long as you hold down the SHIFT button, the
crayon doesn't draw anything.  But you can still see it.  It's like a
ghost.  It blinks off and on, so you know exactly where it is.

What if you have drawn a picture, and you want to draw something new?
Do you have to erase each little color block on the TV screen?

No.  Just press the ENTER button.  Poof!  Your drawing vanishes.  Now
you can try something new.

What should you draw? You can draw anything!  I love to draw monster
faces, giant letters, and railroad tracks.  You might try some mazes,
animals, bridges, and planets.  Or some beautiful shapes and patterns
-- floating cubes, squares, spirals, and boxes inside boxes.

The screen is empty.  Pick out a crayon and start drawing.

To SAVE the TV screen drawing, follow this procedure:

    1. LOAD and RUN the Crayon program.
    2. Draw a picture on the TV screen.
    3. Press S when you are ready to SAVE the picture.
    4. Decide on a name for the picture.
    5. Select T for tape or D for disk when prompted.
    6. Position tape.
    7. Press PLAY and RECORD on the tape player.
    8. Name your picture.
    9. Press ENTER key when ready.

To LOAD a previously SAVEd TV screen drawing, follow this procedure:

    1. LOAD and RUN the Crayon program.
    2. Press L when you are ready to LOAD in a picture.
    3. Remember the name for the previously SAVEd picture.  Rewind the
       tape to the location (counter number) where the picture was
       SAVEd.
    4. Press PLAY on the recorder.
    5. Type picture name when prompted.
    6. Press ENTER key when ready.

Your TV screen will then display the previously SAVEd picture.  You
can change the drawing, if you wish, and SAVE it again under a
different name, or the same name.
