GUESS MY NUMBER

For Parents and Teachers...

This game helps children learn numbers and number sequence.  It helps
them become familiar with and adept at manipulating the "greater-than"
and "less-than" relationship among numbers.  It helps them learn
efficient techniques for searching through a group of numbers.

For Kids...

In this game, the computer "thinks up" a number between 1 and 20.  It
asks you your name.  (Let's say your name is Hatty.)  "HATTY," the
computer says, "I AM THINKING OF A NUMBER BETWEEN 1 AND 20.  WHAT IS
IT?"

You try to guess the computer's number.  Let's say you guess "10."

The computer might make a sad face and say: "SORRY!  TOO HIGH!  TRY
AGAIN!"

You guess the number that is smaller than your last number.  You guess
"5."

The computer makes another sad face.  "TOO HIGH!" it says.

You try again.  You guess a number that's even smaller.  You guess
"3."

The computer makes a happy face.  "RIGHT!" it says.  It plays a happy
tune.

The computer asks if you want to play again.  You type "Y" or "YES"
and the computer thinks up a new number for you to guess.

Here's a hint to help you guess numbers really fast: always pick a
number about halfway between the highest possible number and the
lowest possible number.  This seems like a strange way to play the
game, but it really works.

For example, in the beginning, the computer thinks up a number between
1 and 20.  So you should think up a number halfway between 1 and 20.
Your number should be 10.

Let's say the computer says 10 is too low.  That means the computer's
number must be between 11 and 20.  This time you need to pick a number
halfway between 11 and 20.  Your number should be 16.

Let's say the computer says 16 is too high.  That means the computer's
number must be between 11 and 15.  You need to pick a number halfway
between 11 and 15.  Your number should be 13.

The computer says: "RIGHT!"  You guessed the number!

Now you try this trick.  It's good for finding a single number buried
in a lot of numbers -- like finding a needle hidden in a haystack.
