WORD SEARCH

  Word Search Generates Learning as Well as Fun 

  by Timothy J. O'Donnell
 
Spelling, as an exercise in rote learning, was never a lot of fun, if
I correctly remember my childhood conclusion on the subject.  I
enjoyed reading, but vocabulary study seemed nearly as dry a process
as spelling.  Except, of course, when Miss Watkins taught us our words
in the fifth grade.  We boys would have gladly done anything for Miss
Watkins -- even study our spelling words!  Unfortunately, she married
a soldier from Ft. Knox and left school in the middle of the year.

We lost-and-pining young souls eventually struggled through, but our
spelling and vocabulary words once more became dark and gloomy items,
cloaked in uncertainty and hovering vaguely out of reach.

Of course, teaching methods have improved considerably through the
years (Miss Watkins excepted), and the learning process governed by
todayâ€™s school systems has, in general, become far less tedious.

Part of the reason for this improvement in the lot of the young
learner has been the introduction of the computer into the classroom,
and the accessability of creative software such as the Word Search
program recently brought to our attention by Timothy J. O'Donnell.

Mr. O'Donnell is a teacher at Buckeye Valley High School in Delaware,
Ohio, and used the original version of this program in giving spelling
and vocabulary instruction.  To more closely fit his needs, and those
of his students, he extensively rewrote the program, adapting it to
the 80C.

Word search puzzles, if you happen not to be familiar with them,
present you with rows and columns of letters, within which are hidden
words along any vertical, horizontal, or diagonal axis, and written
either backward or forward.  As you find them, you circle them with a
pen or pencil and move on to search for the next.

This revised version of the Word Search program will chart up to 39
characters wide, and columns of any reasonable length.  You can enter
as many words to search for as will fit in your chosen format.  Also,
you can print as many copies of your puzzle as you wish, making it
ideal for the classroom.  As you see, now, this program does require a
line printer.  A final, and extremely important aspect of the program
is its provision for furnishing you an answer key to the puzzle.

Hopefully, many of you will find it entertaining and useful as an
educational family game, or a valuable offering to any school which
might employ the 80C in their classrooms.

Even programs such as Word Search can never replace Miss Watkins (or
Mr. O'Donnell, either, for that matter), but they can stimulate
learning by making it more fun.  Of that I know Miss Watkins would
approve.  Obviously, Mr. O'Donnell does.
