MOSAIC PUZZLE

  by Rick Rothstein 

  Before Rubik's Cube became so popular, sliding square puzzles used
  to challenge the mind.  "Mosaic Puzzle" is a computer version of the
  square puzzle.  This computer game goes one better than the original
  by allowing head-to-head competition through an option that restores
  the original game board.  Requires TI Extended BASIC.


The object of "Mosaic Puzzle" is to slide the blocks about, one at a
time, to bring them to one of several preselected patterns.  Some
patterns that you can try to duplicate are given in Table 1.

When the game is run, you have the option of requesting either letters
(A-O) or numbers (1-15) within a 4-by-4 frame.  Once you have entered
your choice, the game board with its lettered or numbered blocks
appears in a scrambled order

Move the lettered or numbered blocks around the game board with a
joystick or the keyboard (E,S,D, and X keys).  You actually have a
choice of moving either the free space (hole) or the labeled blocks.
The game is initially set to move the free space, but by pressing I
(note the appearance of the left-right arrow symbol in the lower-left
comer of the screen), you can move the labeled blocks.

Each move that you make is tallied and the total number of moves is
given at the bottom of the screen.  Moves are normally accompanied by
a sliding noise and the note symbol will appear at the lower-right
comer of the screen.  If this noise becomes annoying, press N and the
noise will cease and the note will disappear

At certain times during the game, you may wish to retrace your
previous moves.  Press - (minus sign) or hit the fire button to step
back through each preceding move.  With this option, a maximum of 250
moves can be recalled.

Once you've achieved the desired preselected pattern from its saambled
beginnings, you can restore the original game board pattern by
pressing FCTN (REDO).

Other options available to you are listed in Table 2.

Well, there you have it.  A simple yet challenging game that will keep
all puzzle fans intrigued for hours.  And if there is more than one
puzzle fan in the family they can compete to see who can copy the
pattern in the least number of moves.


Table 1. Possible Patterns For Mosaic Puzzle

     1  2  3  4     1  5  9 13     7  8  9 10
     5  6  7  8     2  6 10 14     6  1  2 11
     9 10 11 12     3  7 11 15     5  4  3 12
    13 14 15        4  8 12          15 14 13

     Horizontal      Vertical        Spiral


     1  2  3  4    12  2  1 15     A  B  C  D
    12 13 14  5     7  9 10  4     E  F  G  H
    11    15  6    11  5  6  8     I  J  K  L
    10  9  8  7       14 13  3     M  M  O

     Peripheral   Adds to Thirty   Horizontal


     A  E  I  M     G  H  I  J     A  B  C  D
     B  F  J  N     F  A  B  K     L  M  N  E
     C  G  K  O     E  D  C  L     K     O  F
     D  H  L           O  N  M     J  I  H  G

      Vertical        Spiral       Peripheral


Table 2. Game Options 

    Keystroke          Description 

    FCTN [BACK]        Return to the letter or number option menu.
    FCTN [REDO]        Restore original game board.
    FCTN [BEGIN]       Starts a new game.
    FCTN [ERASE]       Ends the program.
    - or fire button   Step back one move.
    N                  Turn sound on or off.
    I                  Returns to moving space or block.
