Cokes

Imagine -- you just left the computer room heading for the canteen to
have a cold soft drink.  Enroute another programmer offers to flip a
coin with you to determine who will buy.  And as you round the corner
in the hallway two people from another department offer to join you in
this age-old form of office gambling.

Rather than risk being seen by a boss while gambling with a group in
the corridors, suggest instead that a return to the computer room is
in order.  There you can introduce your friends to the game of Cokes,
the computerized version of odd man out.

As provided here, this game permits from one to four persons to play.
The computer picks a number between 1 and 999, and the players take
turns trying to *guess what the hidden number is not*.  Because there
are so many numbers in the range from 1 to 999, even with four players
the game could last all afternoon in this form.  So there is another
feature of the game that has been added to quicken the pace.

With each guess by a player the range permitted for the next guess is
continuously reduced.  If a player's guess is too high, the value of
the guess is adopted by the computer to be the new top limit.  In the
same manner, when a guess is too low, the number just entered becomes
the low-end limit for the next turn.  Obviously, as the range narrows,
the risk of bumping into the correct number increases rapidly.

For those players who are timid of heart but short on abstract
reasoning capacity, you can discount the logic for an
always-one-Iess-than strategy.  They're just as likely to encounter
the hidden number that way as any other.  In fact, you can hasten
their play by using a strategy that roughly equates to a binary search
algorithm; enter guesses that are halfway between the changing limits.
You're certainly no more apt to accidentally pick the losing number
this way since the odds are the same for all numbers regardless of the
guessing scheme.
