SOUND/SIGHT SIMON

This game is based on an electronic game that became available several
years ago.  In the game, the player must repeat a random tone pattern
of ever-increasing length and speed.  Naturally, as the number of
tones in the pattern increases, and the pace quickens, the game soon
becomes rather difficult, to say the least.

The program which follows is an attempt to simulate the operation of
the game of "Simon."  In fact, a case could be made for the claim that
this TI-99/4A version is an improvement, because it provides the user
with not four but no fewer than nine increasing levels of difficulty.
In addition, this computerized version of "Simon" provides nine tones
rather than just four.  As each tone is emitted, a digit corresponding
to that tone is displayed in the center of the screen so that even if
you are hard of hearing or have poor eyesight, you still have a
fighting chance to succeed.

The game works like this: The computer emits a random tone, at the
same time displaying a corresponding digit (1-9).  The player must
"echo" back this tone by striking the correct numeric key on the
keyboard.  For example, if tone number 7 is emitted (a "7" is also
displayed in the center of the screen), number 7 on the keyboard must
be pressed.  The computer then repeats the first tone followed
immediately by another random tone.  The player must now echo the
two-tone sequence in correct order.  This process continues, with the
computer adding a new random tone in each successive round.  The
length of the sequence is limited by the level of difficulty selected
by the player, and the player wins if he or she is able to repeat the
final sequence without mishap.
