CALENDAR

  Pope Gregory Would Like This Calendar

  by Herbert B. Ridge

On a recent vacation I saw a plaque which displayed this truism: "The
Difference Between Men And Boys Is The Price Of Their Toys."  When I
think of what I fondly refer to as “my computer room" I know the
creator of that short saying must be a computer enthusiast.

I am also sure he knows, as you do, our "toys," in addition to
entertaining, quickly become essential in all our day-to-day
endeavors.

My program will help you keep track of those day-to-day endeavors
day-by-day.

The following program listing prints the universally accepted
Gregorian Calendar (implemented by Pope Gregory XIII).  It is accurate
from January, 1981 until the Gregorian calendar must be adjusted.
Furthermore, when used with the Color Computer, it works with "all"
printers.  Once running, all you need do is follow the computers
instructions.

You are asked to enter the paper type (e.g. roll paper, single sheet,
or fan-fold), the starting year (e.g. 1982), the starting mongh
(e.g. March or Mar), and the number of consecutive months (e.g. 12)
for which you need a calendar.  Set your paper at top-of-form and
stand back.

I keep track of software development and this jewel, even though
small, fills a big hole.  I am sure you will be pleased with the
unique appearance of its product.

I am a supervisor of computer instructors where scheduling accuracy,
on a scale of 1 to 10, rates a 15.  My "year-at-a-glance" I keep
hanging beside my desk is a real lifesaver.  At home it keeps the
entire family fully advised.  I am absolutely, without a doubt
positive, you will come up with uses for your own calendar that I have
not mentioned here nor yet thought of.

This BASIC program is easily understood which makes it easily
modified.  The REM Statements pertain to the line number(s)
numerically closest to them and make the program operation
understandable.  If you keep your Rainbows you need only type in the
line numbers divisible by ten.

The modification possibilities are endless.  You may want to make it
wider.  You may want to add a printout of holidays and special
reminders for relatives’ birthdays, anniversaries, etc.  You may want
to change the asterisks to block graphics characters.  I have done all
these things to my personalized calendar but I leave your
personalization to the best qualified: YOU!

This is a program which is good for several lifetimes.  I hope it
serves you as well as it does me.  Good Luck!
