Bandit

Maybe you have been to Freeport, Monte Carlo, or Las Vegas.  If so
you're undoubtedly familiar with slot machines.  In any event we have
here the poor programmer's facsimile of the one-armed bandits common
to the gambling capitals of the world.  Of course few microcomputers
can cough up cold cash so a little pretending is helpful.

To partly compensate for your machine's inability to heap piles of
winnings at your feet the game of Bandit does permit you to vary the
amount of the bet with each figurative pull of the handle.  And during
the course of play an occasional whimsical message is printed, based
on your winnings or lack thereof.  Both are interesting features that
the makers of real slot machines perhaps ought to consider adding.

In the absence of fancy graphics capability, instead of displaying
pictures of grapes, lemons, and cherries, this program will print the
names (GRAPES, LEMONS, or whatever).  It does help, then, for the
players of Bandit to at least be literate.  The tidbits of humor that
occasionally surface are more enjoyable also to the person able to
read simple English.

This game is essentially mechanical.  When the prompt appears (BET?),
type a number to represent a dollar amount.  The rules caution on the
limit of $200 for a single bet.  When you terminate the entry -- by
use of the RETURN, LINE FEED, or whatever your fini-key is called --
the program will roll the three picture tumblers.

Your bet is lost if you don't get at least a pair of something.  Any
odd pair will pay you, though -- twice whatever you bet.  If all three
pictures come up alike your winnings for that roll are five times your
bet -- with the exception of BAR or JACKPOT.  Triple bars are worth
ten times the amount you bet, and triple jackpots will pay your bet
twenty times over.

Opportunites to quit the game (or to elect to continue) are announced
whenever your winnings or losses exceed $200 or whenever you are again
even with the board.  Notice also that it is not necessary to type an
amount for each pull of the handle.  The computer will remember the
amount typed in at any point and will allow you to "let it ride" with
each simulated pull of the handle, providing you terminate without
typing anything at all.  Points concerning the end-of-game boundaries
and the automatically repeated betting are seemingly unrelated, yet
they do have problematic implications.

Betting in hundred-dollar increments or similarly large amounts will
indeed cause a short game.  Conversely, nickel or dime bets may never
exceed the $200 win or loss threshold; indeed, it may well take more
than just all night for you to get back to zero -- especially if you
arbitrarily vary the bets.

Because of the way this all works it can be rather fun to force an
end-of-game situation by blowing the $200 upper limit by intentionally
losing more than $200 or, even more arduous sometimes, by trying to
zero out.
