[Note: This program has been adapted from the original to run in TI
Extended BASIC.  Some compromises had to be made to compensate for the
smaller range of redefinable characters.]


LET'S LEARN NOTES

  by C. Regena

"Let's Learn Notes" was designed to be used by beginning music
students.  A piano or organ teacher can use the program during the
lesson to give the student a different approach to learning musical
notes, or a student can run the program before or after his/her
regular lesson time with the music teacher.  Students can also use the
program at home for additional practice in learning the musical notes.
Even preschool children can begin learning notes with this program.

The program is written in TI BASIC and uses color graphics to draw
piano keyboards, musical staffs, and notes.  In addition, the program
generates musical tones.

This program provides three options: Keyboard Learning, Treble Clef
Learning and Bass Clef Learning.  Each option asks for ten responses.
An incorrect response is recognized by a slight non-musical noise; the
correct response must be entered before the program will continue.

"Keyboard Learning" randomly selects and displays one of two piano
keyboards (starting at the left with either two black keys or three
black keys).  The program randomly selects one of the 11 displayed
piano keys and flashes a question mark on the key.  The student
responds by pressing the letter on the computer keyboard that
corresponds to the letter name of the piano key shown.  If the
response is correct, the corresponding musical tone is played and the
letter name is pointed on the piano key.  The program randomly chooses
Keyboard 1 or Keyboard 2 for each question.  If the keyboard chosen is
the same as for the previous question, the keyboard is not redrawn.

"Treble Clef Learning" displays a treble staff and clef.  A note is
selected randomly from Middle C to high F (top line of the staff) and
displayed as a red quarter note.  The student presses the letter on
the computer keyboard that corresponds to the letter name of the note.
If the response is correct, the corresponding musical tone is played
and the letter name is printed on the note.

"Bass Clef Learning" displays a bass staff and clef.  A note is
selected randomly from low G (bottom line of the staff) to Middle C
and displayed as a red quarter note.  The student presses the letter
on the computer keyboard that corresponds to the letter name of the
note.  If the response is correct, a five-note scale is played and the
letter name is printed on the note.

This program is very easy to use and "student-friendly" -- even for
the youngest piano learners.  A student can select the three learning
options at the beginning of the program or after each option has
finished, simply by pressing 1, 2, or 3 on the computer keyboard.  If
a number greater than 3 is pressed, the program ends.

By using this program, repetitious drill is made much more fun for the
piano student and much less boring for the teacher.  TI's color
graphics and sound in this program greatly enhance the student's
motivation to learn the letter names of piano keys and notes.
