[Note: I have not been successful in getting the "ADVENTUR" module to
 run on a disk-based system due to memory constraints.]

DUNGEON ADVENTURE

  Playing the Great Dungeon Adventure

  by Gregory Ricketts

Entering the Dungeon

If youâ€™re ready to engage these dire grounds, to face a motley mob of
menacing monsters and peregrinate the perilous pathways of this
labyrinth laden with liability, please CLOAD and ENTER.

First, load the dungeon-making program entitled "Dungeon".  If
instead, you wish to continue an adventure already started, you need
to load the program entitled "Adventur", and then follow the
directions for loading your old party from tape.  Let's pretend we're
starting an adventure. First load "Dungeon", then answer "No" to the
first question; you need a party of adventurers, not just a dungeon.
After you have completed making your adventuring party, make sure the
"play" key on the recorder is down, because after the dungeon is
generated the next program "Adventur" will be automatically loaded.

Once "Adventur" is loaded, you should answer the question, "Are you
starting a new adventure?" with a "Yes."  If you were to answer "No,"
you would be prompted to load in your old party.  Next, you are
instructed in how to set up your party members in the order they will
first appear in any encounter.

The flashing cursor is controlled by the arrow keys and the specified
party member is placed with the "P" key.  A status report can be taken
during this routine.

Movement through the dungeon is pretty self-explanatory, the arrow
keys are used to move your party.  I have included in this phase a
status report, and. during this phase, the dungeon and your
adventuring party can be saved to tape.  I also have included
wandering monsters, so that even dungeon areas that should be cleared,
signified by the X's can be encounter areas, and getting back to the
exit might be full of peril.

During the fight sequence, there are still four things each party
member may do.  Movement -- which is again accomplished by the arrow
keys; Fighting -- placing the grid mentally over the attacking party
member and pressing the appropriate key for the monsters (I don't
think anyone could understand that explanation without the game in
front of them); Taking a position -- which can give you extra
movement, attack levels, damage factors, defense points, and recovery
of lost body points; Checking status.

Whenever you return from town, you must go through the adventurer
set-up phase.

My best hint: If you have a certain character you don't want to die,
namely yourself, have him attack from a diagonal while another party
member attacks straight on.  The monster will attack the other party
member first.

Good luck!
