SKELETON

Skill area: Science
Level: 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

That Old Bag of Bones 

You've heard people say their family has a "skeleton in the closet."
Usually they mean Aunt Mildred is a bit peculiar, or Uncle Fred has a
very strange hobby.  But there's another way to get a skeleton in your
closet: lose this game, and you'll have a skeleton sitting right on
your closet floor.

Do you want a skeleton in your closet?  Of course not!  But if you
know your bones, you won't have any problem with this knock-kneed
character.

How to Play

"Skeleton" is designed to teach you parts of the basic skeletal
structure.  The computer will pick a name of a bone which you must
guess.  The computer will also give you a clue.  Determine the bone by
trying one letter at a time.  If you pick more than 11 incorrect
letters, you'll find a skeleton sitting in your closet.

Hit any key to begin.  Then pick your level of play and wait ten
seconds.  The computer will ask you to enter a letter.  If it's a
letter that's found in the word the computer has in mind, the computer
will show you that letter's position in the word.  If you guess
incorrectly, the screen will go black, the incorrect letter you've
tried will appear at the bottom of the screen, and part of the
skeleton 1will appear in your closet.

The names included in Skeleton appear below.  Familiarize yourself
with the list, but try not to use it during play.  You may find it
easier if you use the list, but you won't have as much fun.

Beginning List

    Clavicle   Fibula             Carpal Bones
    Humerus    Femur              Metacarpal Bones
    Ulna       Metatarsal Bones   Phalanges
    Radius     Tarsal Bones       Coccyx
    Tibia      Patella            Ilium
    Pubis      Vertebrae          Scapula
    Ischium    Ribs               Mandible
    Sacrum     Sternum            Cranium

Advanced List

    Parietal Bone        Maxilla
    Sphenoid             Zygomatic Bone
    Temporal Bone        Nasal Bone
    Occipital Bone       Frontal Bone
    Mastoid Process      Sacroiliac Joint
    Pubic Symphysis      Axis
    Lumbar Vertebrae     Atlas
    Thoracic Vertebrae   Axis
    Cervical Vertebrae   Atlas

Scoring 

At the end of a round, the computer will ask if you want the name of
another bone.  Press the letter Y for yes or the letter N for no.
After you've finished playing Skeleton, the computer will tell you how
many words you correctly identified, as well as how many you missed.
