FRACTION

  A Common Denominator for Math Study and Ease 
  by Robert L. Crooks

Fraction was written after spending several hours on several different
days checking my daughter's math homework.  She had just started
fractions in school, and even though I'm at home with numbers, it was
still a large time sink.  While in the process of devising a routine
for simple checking of simple fractions, it was but a short step (in
concept anyway) to the attached routine.

This routine will check problems for you which you input.  Problem
types that can be checked are reduction of a fraction to lowest terms,
finding a common denominator, adding, subtracting, multiplying and
dividing fractions.  You specify the number of fractions in the
problem (1,2 + 1/3 + 16 has three, for example) and formal (mixed,
common, improper, etc.).  All decisions which are required on your
part are menu-driven, so it's pretty difficult to make a mistake.  The
routine will then give the correct answer.  If the answer is greater
than one, the program gives the answer both as a mixed fraction and as
an improper fraction.

The routine also will make up fractions so that the kids can practice
during the long tedious summer.  Any of the types of problems that can
be checked (see above) can also be generated by the program for test
purposes.  The routine then prints the "guessed" answer and also the
correct answer.  The routine keeps track of right answers, and alter
10 problems it gives you your score,

A drawback or two exists in the program which can be readily overcome,
except that I got tired of fiddling with it.  Drawback number one is
that all user input must be in fraction form.  In other words, if you
want to input the number "21," it will have to be entered as "21/1."
The screen instructions specify this but you should be forewarned.

The other drawback is that the only way to exit the current format of
problem is to "break."  If you are zipping along doing addition
problems and you want to change to multiplying, you have to "break"
then RUN and start over.  Again, the screen instructions are clear,
but I just thought I would warn you.
