STATE OF THE UNION

Skill area: Social Studies
Level: 3, 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

"State.of the Union" is a question-and-answer game designed to teach
the names of the 50 states, their capitals, locations, and various
facts about each state's history or economics.  The object is to see
how quickly you can identify the state from the questions asked.

How to Play

To begin the game, hit any key.  There is about a ten-second delay
between the time you hit the key and the time the game begins.

When a question is asked, type the name of the state on the keyboard
and hit RETURN. If you don't know the answer to the question, you can
either make a guess or hit the RETURN key.  Abbreviations and
misspellings will count as incorrect answers, so you must correctly
spell the full name of the state.  For your reference, the correct
spellings of the state names appear below:

    Alabama        Louisiana         Ohio
    Alaska         Maine             Oklahoma
    Arizona        Maryland          Oregon
    Arkansas       Massachusetts     Pennsylvania
    California     Michigan          Rhode Island
    Colorado       Minnesota         South Carolina
    Connecticut    Mississippi       South Dakota
    Delaware       Missouri          Tennessee
    Florida        Montana           Texas
    Georgia        Nebraska          Utah
    Hawaii         Nevada            Vermont
    Idaho          New Hampshire     Virginia
    Illinois       New Jersey        Washington
    Indiana        New Mexico        West Virginia
    Iowa           New York          Wisconsin
    Kansas         North Carolina    Wyoming
    Kentucky       North Dakota

If you are still unable to name a state after the first four
questions, a map of the continental United States will be shown, with
the state in question indicated.  Your final question will be to
identify the state from its location.

If you are still unable to identify the state after seeing its
location on the map, the name of the state will flash on the screen.

If you want to quit the game early, type END in the place of any
answer.  Your percentage score will not be affected by your decision
to quit playing before all questions are asked.

Scoring 

If you answer correctly after only one question, 5 points.

If you answer after the second question, 4 points.

If you answer after the third question, 3 points.

If you answer after the fourth question, 2 points.

If you answer after seeing the location of the state on the map, 1
point.

If you are still unable to guess the name of the state, -5 points.

Scoring is determined by the number of points you receive, and that
number is shown at the end of the game.  You will also receive a
percentage score to let you know how well you've done.
