[This game is Part 1 of 4 of The Sorcerer's Puzzles VI.  See "Ahah",
"Alphaswitch", and "Counterfeit Doubloon" for Parts 2, 3, and 4.]

(From Color Computer Magazine, April 1984.)

Poke and Sunflower SUNFLOWER were finishing a hearty breakfast when
the Sorcerer's twisted major domo, Bob, entered the scullery.  With
him was a burly man wearing a black hood that covered his head.

"What's this?" asked Sunflower, who was not shy about posing forward
questions.

"Sorcerer Goldberg said to bring you to the dungeon," Bob told them
"My friend here ensures your compliance."

"What's going to happen?" Poke asked.

Bob peered at the ceiling as if lost in thought.  "I do believe the
Sorcerer said he was going to execute you today."

Sunflower threw down her napkin and stood.  Her chair clattered to the
floor behind her.  Poke stared at Bob and the hooded man, with a
nearly unhinged jaw.

"Fetch them up, Harold," Bob directed, and the man in black stepped
forward with a crablike motion and clamped a hammy hand on the back of
each neck.

"No!" Poke screamed.  Sunflower pummeled hooded Harold's midsection in
quiet fury.

Neither could escape.  With Bob limping along in the lead and Harold
following with a prisoner secured under each arm, the procession
passed through a long stone hallway and descended to the dank nether
regions of the castle.  Down a torchlit hall they went, past rusted
cells and the sounds of small creatures skittering in the dark.

At the end of the hall was a huge oak door, which opened to reveal the
Sor cerer standing before an empty blackboard.  "Good morning," he
said with a smile.

"Why are you doing this?" Sunflower demanded.

"I think you'll agree it's time," Sorcerer Goldberg said.

"I quit! " said Poke.  "I don't want to be your apprentice n-o-o-o
more!  Just let me out of here!"

"Oh, come now," the Sorcerer chuckled, "it won't be all that bad!"

"What's worse than death?" Sunflower asked as hooded Harold set her
and Poke on the floor, then fell back a pace to guard the door.

"Death?" said the Sorcerer.  "Is that a rhetorical question?"

"Bob said you were going to execute us," Poke told the Sorcerer.

Bob nodded gleefully.

"I didn't say 'execute', I said 'educate'," the Sorcerer frowned.

A look of genuine disappointment came over Bob's face.  "A harmless
misunderstanding," he said finally.  "These ears aren't what they used
to be. "

"I suppose I won't be needed now," hooded Harold realized with a trace
of wistfulness in his voice.

"I should say not," the Sorcerer laughed.

Turning to Bob, he advised, "I think you owe the apprentices an
apology."

"Why? Because I happen to be a bit deaf?  I hardly think so."

The Sorcerer said nothing, but a small lightning bolt immediately came
out of nowhere, striking Bob a bit below the small of his back.  He
leaped into the air -- quite agilely.  "Sorry!" he screamed.  "I'm
incredibly sorry for any misunderstanding my deafness may have
created."

"You may go," the Sorcerer told Bob and Harold.  Bob left muttering in
a low voice and rubbing that part so recently zapped by lightning.

"This is a classroom," the Sorcerer announced as Poke and Sunflower
sat at the only two student desks in the room.  "I'm going to educate
you in specific subjects as a prelude to a mission you'll be making
for me in a month or so. "

"A quest!" Poke said, nudging Sunflower.

"More in the nature of a scavenger hunt," the Sorcerer corrected.
"But that comes later, not this time.  For now I wish to test you in
four areas: cooperation, in- sight, patterns and resourcefulness."

"Oh, we have all those and more," Poke nodded.

"We'll see," said the Sorcerer, turning to the blackboard...

(Sorcerer's Notes -- All the following programs work on any TRS-80
Color Computer, including the MC-10.  However, the program "Ahah"
requires a line change for the MC-10, and this change is given as a
remarks line in the Listing.)

PARTNERS

Poke and Sunflower are told to write either the number 1 or 2 on a
slip of paper.  This continues in a series. Each starts with 50 gold
coins.  If one writes the number 2 and the other the number 1, the one
who writes 2 gets more coins, but the one who writes 1 loses 10 of his
coins.  If both write the number 1, both lose 1 coins.  If both write
the number 2, both lose five coins.  If one of the players loses all
coins, both lose.  Both win when both have 100 or more coins.  In this
puzzle the player represents Poke to see if he can discover the scheme
Sunflower is using to ensure both players win.  Type RUN, tap Enter,
and answer the questions.
