PARACHUTE JUMP

  From Out of the Blue Comes This Dexterity Test

  by J.E. Bennett and C.E. Laidlaw

Parachute Jump is a one-player game which will test your manual
dexterity with the right joystick on a 16K extended basic machine.
The program uses just over 7K of memory.

The object of this game from JARB Software is to land on the landing
pad, or as close to it you can, while avoiding the bombs dropped by an
invisible mad bomber.  You must allow for the wind in making your
descent.

The score from your last jump and your total score are shown in the
upper left-hand corner of the screen, while the wind speed (0-5 MPH),
direction, and number of times the mad bomber has hit you are shown in
the upper right-hand corner of the screen.  When you are ready, push
the joystick button to jump, and then control your descent with the
joystick.  Left and right will control your direction, while up and
down control the speed of your descent (up=slow and down=fast).  If
you wish you may let the demo counter count down, and the program will
enter the demonstration mode.  Entering a "Q" at any time will END the
program.

Don't get too close to the side of the screen or you'll be "shocked"
by the results.  Oh yes, one final warning -- beware of the occasional
lightning bolt which cannot be escaped!

All of you BASIC programmers may feel free to use any of the
subroutines from Parachute Jump in your own programs.  In particular,
you might take a close look at the scoring routine (lines 490-610).
Have fun with Parachute Jump, and let us know here at JARB Inc. what
you think of this contribution.

For those of you who may not wish to type the program in yourself, it
is available on cassette from JARB Inc. for $9.95 plus $2.00 for
shipping and handling.
