SNAIL INVADERS

Snail Invaders ia a RAINBOW exclusive, brought to you through the good
offices of Illustrated Memory Banks (IMB).

SNAIL INVADERS is a joint effort of Fred B. Scerbo, vice president and
software author for IMB, and Dale Haggerty, a.k.a. "Snail," a
16-year-old student at Drury High School in North Adams, MA.

Scerbo writes that "Dale served as the inspiration for "SNAIL
INVADERS" and helped out by designing the title card and snail
graphics for the game."  The body of the program and working
mechanisms were designed by Scerbo.

"Dale is very talented in art," Scerbo adds.  "Using the Color
Computer for graphics is a new tool for him, and he has proudly
displayed this game to many high school friends who want the chance to
play SNAIL INVADERS."

Scerbo also notes you should not try to run the program until you have
entered all the lines.  Because it uses a speedup routine, you could
hang up the computer and have to switch it off to regain control.  If
that happens, you’ll lose everything you’ve typed.

To save, type POKE 65494,0:CSAVE "SNAIL" <ENTER>

No part of this game may be reproduced or adapted for use in other
games or programs.  If you wish to use the IMB screen scoring routine,
you must contact IMB.  Fred promises us an article on the routine for
a future issue.q

As with all software printed in the RAINBOW, SNAIL INVADERS is
provided for your personal use only.  You are authorized to make two
(2) tape copies for your own use.  For information on additional
copies or reproduction arrangements, contact IMB at P.O. Box 289,
Williamstown, MA, 01267.

The directions: You can move your cannon by pressing the left and
right arrow keys.  Fire by using the space bar.  A sneaky snail will
shoot back at you at random.  You only have three cannons.  When the
snails reach the end of the screen, they will reset.  To replay the
game, press BREAK and RUN.

And remember... snails are slow, but sneaky.
