[This game is Part 2 of 3 of The Sorcerer's Puzzles III.  See "Bricks"
and "64 Witches" for Parts 1 and 3.]

(From Color Computer Magazine, September 1983.)

  by Richard Ramella

"Now, apprentices," the Sorcerer cautioned.  "You'll both try this
test before bed, but now for the second story.  It's called..."

GORDIAN KNOT

Uldabro, the Exalted Vile of Gordius, gave a sneer that barely passed
for a smile as his guards shoved Captain Sam "Lucky" Alexander into
the darkest, smallest cell of the dread Dungeon of Time.

"You won't hold me, Uldabro," smiled Alexander, "there's not a jail in
the galaxy I can't escape."

"We'll see about that, Earth Thing," said Uldabro.  "It's a splendid
occasion for me to imprison a creature named Alexander on Gordius.  Do
you see the significance?"

"Sure," said Alexander, "you're talking about the Gordian knot, said
to have been tied by Gordius and severed by Alexander the Great."

"Exactly, you base consumer of vegetables!"  Uldabro was himself a
vegetable of sorts.  The Vile of Gordius sneered again.  "There is a
panel on the inside of your locked cell door.  It displays a scrambled
message.  Unscramble it and the door opens -- you can walk to
freedom."

Alexander looked at the panel with interest.  "How's it work?"

Uldabro explained slowly: "The scrambled message is displayed on three
lines.  Letters with orangle blocks beneath are in correct position.
Move the cursor by pressing the four arrow keys.  When the cursor is
in the desired position, type M (for move) and the letters are
reordered according to a scheme based on the letter position of the
cursor.  You have 15 tries to unscramble the message and be declared
winner.  Otherwise, all you get is a score of zero to 54.  In all due
respect for anyone's intelligence, I dare say this puzzle is all but
impossible to solve, though the steps to its solution are known to its
creator.  Remember: Knowing the message is not the solution; the
number sequence necessary to put the letters in order form the
solution."

"Okay," said Alexander, "take a hike so I can get to work."

"That was my intent, for it smells rank down here," said the Exalted
Vile.  With an imperious sweep of his robes, he left the cell.  A
guard slammed the main dungeon door shut, and "Lucky" Alexander was
left alone with his problem.

"Wow!" said Poke.  "Is the Gordian Knot puzzle really impossible?"

"I think so," said the Sorcerer.  "No one has ever solved it, and I
doubt if anyone will.  But you'll have to try it."

"Of course," said Sunflower.
