COUNTING GAME

Skill area: Mathematics 
Level: 1,2 
Equipment required: None 
Modification: No 

The Counting House 

You, the king, are in the counting house.  The counting house is full
of hearts, spades, triangles, and other shapes, which you've collected
to decorate the kingdom.  An accurate count of each shape must be
made.

How to Play 

This game teaches a child to recogriize the written and numeric
characters from 1 to 99.  Each number picked is shown as a word and
also as a number of objects.  For example, the word four, followed by
a picture of four hearts, might appear.  Look at the pictures and the
word and then enter the correct number on the keyboard (in this case,
4).

Because people learn to count a little bit at a time, the level of
difficulty can be adjusted when entering the maximum value at the
beginning of the game.  Beginning counters, for example, could choose
a maximum of 10, and the largest number of objects presented in any
question would be 10.  The number of questions that will be asked can
also be selected.  To choose any number in these categories, type the
number and then press the RETURN key.

When the word and the corresponding number of objects appear on the
screen, type the number on the keyboard, then press the RETURN key.
Correct answers will be rewarded with songs; incorrect answers will be
noted with a buzzing noise and a black screen.

Scoring 

The score at the end of the game will tell you how many questions were
asked, how many items were answered correctly, and the percentage of
correct answers.
