Elevate

Here is a game program that makes use of one of the transcendental
functions.  Transcendental, according to Webster, means "incapable of
being the root of an algebraic equation with rational coefficients,"
or "being, involving, or representing a function," such as sine.  This
program does use the BASIC function SIN, so the math majors in our
midst should enjoy it.

For those who have all but forgotten nearly all of this here's a brief
review of sine.

Again, from Webster, sine is defined as "the trigonometric function
that for an acute angle in a right triangle is the ratio of the side
opposite the angle to the hypotenuse."  No kidding.

If all of this puffy phraseology doesn't jog your memory don't
despair.  Just be aware that the distance a projectile will travel can
be predicted if the upward angle at which it was shot is known.  Here,
of course, we do ignore a few things such as velocity, wind
resistance, the weight of the round, etc.

To explain this game to the elementary-school set an analogy can be
shown while watering the lawn.  With the nozzle aimed ahead, nearly
horizontal to the ground, the stream from the hose hits the ground a
few feet in front of you.  Horizontal is zero degrees of elevation. If
you aim directly overhead that's 90 degrees of elevation of the
nozzle.  You will get wet.  An elevation of greater than 90 degrees is
beyond straight up, and you may well find yourself hosing down your
living room through an open window.

Range, and how it is affected by elevation, can be demonstrated with
the garden hose also.  With the nozzle adjusted to produce a thin
stream, begin again at the horizontal.  Show that, as elevation
increases, the distance from you that the water will carry also
increases.  At a point you will learn the greatest distance you can
achieve without having to move.  That is termed, by the guys with the
big guns, as "maximum range".

The game Elevate simulates the shooting of a cannon at a ship.  You
are told the maximum range of the cannon, and a fictitious artillery
spotter gives you the approximate range to the ship.  You are supposed
to guess the elevation required to hit the ship and enter the degrees
on the keyboard.  When you terminate the entry the computer will
figure the striking point of your shot and advise whether you were
over or short on the range -- and by how many yards.  The game
continues until you sink the ship.  Actually, a direct hit isn't
necessary, either.  Any hit within 100 yards of the ship will damage
it so severely that it can be assumed to sink.

As you fire away, correcting your elevation based on the spotter's
correction data, your shots are counted.  The object is to use as few
rounds as necessary to score a hit.  See if your friends can do
better.
