FLIP-A-DISK

The game that we are about to describe is yet another mind-bending
test of your strategic abilities.  Originally called "Reversi," the
game was very popular in the Victorian era in England and is sold
today under the trademark "Othello," with some minor changes in the
rules.  The version represented by this program plays human versus
computer and obeys most of the rules found in both of the above
versions.  The exception is the case in which all of one player's
pieces have been eliminated.  For simplicity, "Flip-a-Disk" simply
terminates the game and announces that the player whose pieces remain
on the board wins.  A similar rule applies when both players must
forfeit their moves.  In that case the game is halted and the player
with the most pieces wins.

For those who do not know the rules of "Reversi," they are as follows:
The starting position is as shown on the screen before the first move.
That is, there are two white and two black pieces in the middle of the
board in a checkered pattern.  The idea of the game is to flank the
opponent's pieces —- that is, to place a piece on a square such that
some of the opponent's pieces are sandwiched in between the newly
moved piece and one which was already on the board.  All the flanked
pieces are then "flipped" to the color of the flanking pieces.  For
example, if there is

    O X X X 

"O" moves to the location indicated

    O X X X O

and flips the intervening pieces so that the board now becomes

    O O O O O

"capturing" three of the opponent's pieces.  The capturing may occur
in any direction —- horizontal, vertical, or diagonal.  It may even
occur in all eight directions in one turn —- if you're extremely
lucky.  The rules may sound extremely simple —- at first glance almost
as easy as Tic-Tac-Toe.  And only in two dimensions.  Yet,
nonetheless, this game is just about as difficult to master as chess.
If you think that the game is not so tough, this program will --
unless you are extraordinarily good —- teach you some humility!  If
you feel the need to quit, this can be done by typing Q (for quit) as
the column value.  If you do, the computer will ask if you wish to
play another game.

If you are smart —- as we are sure you are -— this game may take you
as little as five minutes to learn.  To master it though, you might
have to spend the rest of your life at it.  In any event, good luck.
