Knights

History provides an interesting introduction to the principals in this
game.  First, there are the knights.  In the century or so just past
these are supposed to have been the noblest of men -- always honest
and gentlemanly, but not necessarily horsemen.  Flipping back through
the pages of history we find that their title has more to do with
horsemanship than with honorable virtues. This game presumes the
modern connotation, at least to the extent that knights are considered
to be incapable of telling a falsehood.

Knaves, on the other hand, are considered today to be inveterate
storytellers.  In days of old they were merely small boys, boy
servants, or young men of humble origin.  Isn't it amusing that with
the passing of time a guy on a horse has become virtuous and boyhood
has become almost synonymous with lying?

Remaining principals in the game of Knights seem to have suffered no
change in all of history.  Numskulls used to be, still are, and
probably always will be considered to be unreliable.  It is a good
idea, in history, in life, and especially in this game, to pay no heed
to their advice.

These are the characters in Knights.  In the beginning there are nine
letters displayed, in groups of three, and below each is a letter, T
or F.  Two truth symbols are printed as if in response to the
question: "Are these now right?"  The game's player (that's you) sits
in judgment of these declarations.  The object of the game is to move
the letters about until they are all properly grouped under the
headings of knights, knaves, and numskulls (three per).

As the game opens you are forewarned that: (1) knights never lie, (2)
knaves always lie, and (3) you can't trust numskulls.  Your ability to
deduce the correct placement of the individual letters depends on your
faith in these axioms.

Any letter appearing in the knights' group that is marked with a T is
in the correct group.  By the same logic an F beneath a letter in the
first group indicates that the letter is falsely placed.  Imperative
logic applies to the knaves as well, but their truth indicators must
be considered as inverted or switched.  Remember: the knaves always
lie -- you can depend on it.

You cannot depend on the numskulls, however -- neither for a correct
answer nor even for the same answer twice in a row.  The letter G, for
example, may first appear in the knights' area.  At that point assume
G is shown to be false.  If, though, when you retype the letters and
move G under the knaves, it could now be labeled with a T (which must
be read as false).  If this be the case: G must be a numskull.  Yet,
as you continue to regroup all of the letters, but each time keeping G
with the numskulls, his truth indicator may alternate between T and F,
sporadically.  You just can't trust a numskull.

A reverse trail of markers must be seen to fully appreciate how it is
that you can succeed, possibly even in fewer turns than your friends.
Regardless of the marker appearing under a letter in the numskulls'
area, if, when that letter is moved to the first area it is then
tagged as true, it is a knight.  Similarly, if a letter is marked with
an F whenever it is located under the knaves heading, keep it there;
it is where it belongs.

The logic of Knights is such that when the knights and the knaves are
properly grouped, the numskulls will all read as true.  The end of the
game is reached when you achieve all true answers.  Because the knaves
are forever liars the indicator string will read; T-T-T, F-F-F, and
T-T-T.

When the game does end there is an immediate replay option just like
other games in this book.  Because of this it should be apparent that
the solution to one game has no bearing on a following game.  Not only
do the letters take on a different labeling, the letters themselves
are apt to change from game to game.

Although a game uses only nine letters of the alphabet (all
different), the program houses twenty-four letters.  The reason that
there are not twenty-six possibles is that, the letters T and F are
excluded from the random selection list.  This is done to preclude
confusion as to what is supposed to be typed for each turn; turns
consist of three entry points, with three letters asked for at each.

A round begins with a turn number notation and the knights
prompt. Three letters should be typed, then, separated by commas.
When the entry of the knights character string is terminated, the
knaves prompt appears.  Again, three letters should be entered,
terminated, and the numskulls label will appear to permit entry of the
remaining group of three letters.

Following the three entries a new board is printed showing your
rearrangement of the letters with their resulting truth flags.  And so
goes the game until the truth of the groupings is correctly
established.

The game of Knights can be fun -- even exasperating for some.  The
program can be fun too.  It can be fun to code and load, and it can be
exasperating to get to work correctly as well, especially if it is not
lifted accurately from what follows.  In the section that deals with
the internal logic my original bugs are exposed, as well as how they
were exterminated.  The design layout survived intact, however, so we
will start there.
