GET THE TREASURE

Skill area: Coordination 
Level: 1 
Equipment required: Joystick
Modification: Yes 

The Treasure Chest 

You have a treasure chest, but it's empty.  The genie who gave you the
treasure chest said he would help you fill it, but only if his
instructions are followed.  In fact, there is a whole field full of
treasures you may have if they are collected in the right order.

How to Play 

The computer will scatter ten treasures, geometric shapes of various
colors, around the screen.  Using a joystick, move the cursor to the
treasure indicated at the top of the screen. When the cursor touches a
treasure, the treasure will be moved to the chest at the foot of the
screen.

In addition to teaching coordination (use of the joystick) and shape
recognition, "Get the Treasure" teaches you to match colors.  If the
item to find is a blue heart, for example, the heart you touch must
also be a blue one.  A red one or a purple one won't do.

If you pick the right treasure, a musical tone will indicate that
you've made a correct choice.  Picking the wrong treasure will produce
a buzzing sound.

Scoring 

At the end of the game, you will be told how many errors were made and
how many seconds it took you to get all ten treasures into the
treasure chest.  You'll always win Get the Treasure -- that is, always
get all ten treasures unless you quit playing in mid-game.  However,
the score and your coordination can be improved by trying to reach all
ten treasures in a shorter time period.  This is the true object of
the game.
