THE ARITHMETIC GAME

For Parents and Teachers...

This game helps children learn addition, subtraction, multiplication,
and division.

For Kids...

When I was a child, I used to work on an arithmetic problem and then
get frustrated because I didn't know if my answer was right or wrong.
I wanted to know the answer right away.  But I had to wait until the
teacher graded my homework paper or my test.  Sometimes that took days
or even weeks.  By the time I got my paper back, the problem was no
longer fresh in my mind.  If I got it right, I didn't know why.  If I
got it wrong, I didn't know why.  And I no longer really cared.

Now you can solve arithmetic problems and learn instantly if you got
them right or wrong.  How?  You can play the Arithmetic Game.  It's
like hiring the computer as your own private arithmetic teacher.

When you RUN The Arithmetic Game, the computer displays a "menu" on
the TV screen.  If you press a 1, the computer challenges you with
five addition problems.  If you press a 2, it throws five subtraction
problems at you.  If you press a 3, you get five multiplication
problems.  If you press a 4, you get five division problems.

The computer displays the problem on the screen.  Then you try to
think up the answer.  If you want to, get out a piece of scrap paper
and a pencil.  That's what I do when I'm working on arithmetic
problems.

Think up your answer to the problem, and then type it in.  If you want
to change your answer, press the left-arrow (<-) key.  When your
answer is on the screen, press the ENTER button.

If you get the answer right, the computer draws a happy face, says
"RIGHT!", and plays a happy tune.

If you get the answer wrong, the computer draws a sad face, groans,
and encourages you to "TRY AGAIN!"
