Your radar station picks up an enemy ICBM heading your way, telling
you its coordinates (in miles north and miles east of your location).
You launch a surface-to-air missile (SAM) to intercept it.

Your only control over the SAM is that you can aim it in any
direction, both at launchg, and in mid-air.  Using the coordinates of
the ICBM as a guide, you INPUT the direction (measured CCW from North)
in which you want the SAM to travel.

At the next radar scan one minute later, you are given the new
coordinates of the ICBM, the coordinates of your SAM, and the distance
between the two.  You can make coorections in the course of your SAM
by entering a new direction.

You have no control over the altitude of your SAM, as it is assumed
that it will seek the same altitude as the ICBM.

As the two missiles draw closer, you make adjustments in the direction
of the SAM so as to intercept the ICBM.  It's not easy to hit, because
the ICBM is programmed to make evasive maneuvers, by taking random
deviations from the straight line course to your location.  Also, its
speed is not known, although it does not vary after being randomly
selected at the start of the run.

You can destroy the ICBM by coming within 5 miles of it, at which time
your SAM's heat-seeking sensors will come into action and direct it to
its target.  If you overshoot the ICBM it's possible to turn the SAM
around and chase the ICBM back towards your location.  But be careful;
you may get both missiles in your lap.

There is also some element of chance involved, as several accident
have been programmed to occur randomly.  These can work for you or
against you.

Some way to improve and expand the program are:

1. Operator control over SAM speed: In the present version the speed
   of the SAM is randomly selected by the computer at the start of the
   run, and remains constant thereafter.  This often results in
   overshooting the ICBM.  Modify the program so that you can input a
   new speed (within limits) at the same time you input the new
   direction.

2. Three dimensional version: Have the computer print the altitude of
   the ICBM, as well as its coordinates.  The operator will then have
   to INPUT the angle his SAM is to make with the horizontal, when
   entering the other quantities.

3. Extend to all Quadrants.  In the present version, the ICBM
   approaches only from the Northeast.  You can expand this to include
   approach from any compass direction.

This game is derived from a program submitted by Chris Falco.  The
writeup is by Paul Calter and originally appeared in Creative
Computing, May/Jun 1975.
