[Note: This program has been adapted from the original to run in TI
Extended BASIC.  Some compromises had to be made to compensate for the
smaller range of redefinable characters.]


HARRIED HOUSEWIFE

  by C. Regena

This matching game is dedicated to tired housewives everywhere who
face the daily battle of keeping their houses clean amidst the
unrelenting attacks from their kids, husbands, dogs, cats, visiting
relatives, unexpected friends, and even home computers -- those new
family additions that seem to be forever spawning dust, out-of-place
furniture, and loose papers.

Harried Housewife uses the color graphics of TI BASIC to depict eight
household chores: dusting, sewing, washing clothes, doing dishes,
cooking, vacuuming, shopping, and ironing.  It is a matching game that
even your young children will enjoy playing. The rules are simple: An
array of 16 squares is displayed on the screen.  Each square
represents one of the eight chores, and there are two of each chore
somewhere in the array.  The object of the game is to find each pair.
You do this by choosing two squares at a time and entering the
corresponding two letters.  As a letter is entered, the chore for that
square is shown. If a match is made, the chore is considered finished
and is listed on the right side of the screen.  If a match is not
made, the two selections are covered, and two more letters may be
chosen.

When all eight pairs are matched, the housework is complete; you have
a clean house and the game is over.  But you mustn’t take too long,
because when the kids come home (determined by the counter in line
1420), everything gets scrambled and the harried housewife must start
over...  And as all harried housewives undoubtedly know: It’s not easy
to get a completely clean house.  Often the goal has to realistically
become somewhat more attainable -- just seeing how much can be
accomplished before the kids come home.

If you get too harried and want to quit, press "S" for stop.  The
arrangement of the current array will be displayed.  After you have
examined it, Shift C (BREAK) to end the program.  If you really feel
you must win more often -- that is, winding up with everything matched
to signify that elusive "clean house" -- you can keep the kids out of
the house longer by increasing the number in line 1420. Then enjoy the
fantasy of a completely clean house all the time.  What?  Why can’t
your home computer make this fantasy actually come true?  Be patient.
It’s just a matter of time...  Anyway, in the words of a once-popular
song: "Such are the dreams of the everyday house wife..."
