[This game is Part 1 of 3 of The Sorcerer's Puzzles III.  See "Gordian
Knot" and "64 Witches" for Parts 2 and 3.]

(From Color Computer Magazine, September 1983.)

  by Richard Ramella

"There is more here than spells and potions," said Sorcerer Donald
E. Goldberg as he opened the heavy tome entitled "Wizardry Made
Simple".  The girl named Sunflower and the boy named Poke listened
with interest.  Life had become exciting since the Sorcerer had
accepted them as apprentices.

Bob, the twisted major domo, threw a log into the fireplace and turned
from the shower of flame and sparks.  "Are you going to read a story,
master?"

"Three stories," said the Sorcerer, who didn't look *magical* at all,
and discarded robes of office in favor of rumpled corduroy suits.

"I'll bet there's a test in every story," Poke laughed.

"Watch your tongue, rapscalion, for the mighty Sorcerer might take
offense," Bob warned.

"Quiet, Bob," said the Sorcerer, and Bob was.  "Yes, there will be
tests in these tales.  The tasks of apprentices never end."

"Read!" said Sunflower, her face aglow.

"I shall," said the Sorcerer.  "The first tale is..."

BRICKS

"I'm sorry I ever got into this pyramid business," said Uz, grand
architect of all Egypt.  "It's just one headache after another!"

"What's wrong now?" asked Lahin, the water girl.

"It's those six massive bricks in that rectangular excavation bounded
by the green frame," said Uz.  "As you can see, there are five bricks
of different colors and one empty space.  The positions of the orange
brick in the northwest corner and the blue brick in the southeast
corner must be exchanged in the fewest possible moves.  The Pharoah
says it has to be done by quitting time today."

"It's easy for him to give difficult orders, isn't it?" Lahin
commiserated.

"Why am I telling you all this?" Uz moaned.  "You're only a girl.  I'm
going home for lunch and think this over."  He took a few steps and
turned.  "If you get any ideas, let me know.  If you solve it, I'll
make you an engineer or an architect or something."

Lahin slipped into a nearly tent and removed the dust cover from a
TRS-80 Color Computer.  "It was bad luck to be thrown back in time
five centuries, but at least I had my Color Computer with me."

When Lahin finished programming the problem, she had this graphic
depiction: a green rectangle containing five colored blocks and a
blank space.  Tapping the arrow keys sends a flashing cursor around
the six available positions.  When you press the letter M, the brick
on which the cursor rests moves into the adjacent blank space.  With
each M (for MOVE) command, the first letyter of the color of the moved
block is added to the answer string shown under the rectangle.  If 25
M commands are given without reversing the orange and blue blocks'
positions, the program ends.

Lahin confidently began to shift colors and found a successful
rearrangement scheme in only 13 moves.  "So I'm *just* a girl, am I?"
she said.  "I wonder if anyone else could do as well?"

"I like stories that demonstrate the natural superiority of females,"
Sunflower said.

"Says you," Poke protested.
