SWAMP WARS

Swamp Wars Can Win Your Croix de Lillypad

If you always wanted to be a frog (some of them change into handsome
prices, you know), there is your chance.

This color game from IMB, Illustrated Memory Banks, is a rapid color
high-res graphic offering called SNANP NARS.

This game was designed with the joint contribution of Drury High
School students (North Adams, MA), Robert Dobbert (SKY-EYE) and Dale
(SNAIL INVADERS, WILD WEB) Haggerty.  This game utilizes some very
fancy tricks on the title cards and keeps the graphic screen turned
off until the high—res graphics are completed.

In SWAMP WARS, you are a huge frog floating in a swamp.  Your right
joystick controls your tongue which is whipped out by pressing the
fire button.  You must try to grab as many waterbugs as you can before
you get zapped by an avenging kamikaze mosquito.  (Don’t try to hit
him: you can't).

The mosquito will appear at random.  Once he has zapped you five
times, the game ends and the screen will show your score.  You need
only press the fire button to replay the game.

Here are a few tips to help you out:

Make sure that you copy every line exactly as it appears.  Every month
we receive phone calls from readers who have made typographical errors
in entering the lines.

This game does not require the CPU speed up.  It is fast enough
without it.  If you wish, you may include POKE65495,0 if you wish the
game to be even faster.  (This might help during title cards which do
stay on rather long while the complex graphics are being drawn.)

Make sure you save the program to tape before trying a speed-up with
CSAVE"SWAMPWRS".

As with all the IMB games shown in the RAINBOW, this game is for your
own use, and may not be reproduced for any other purpose without
permission.
