JARBCODE

Want to Keep It a Secret?  Here's a Way to Do It!

If you are into secrets.. .or just want to do some experimenting with
code, JARBCODE from JARB Software is a great way to go.

This program comes to readers of the RAINBOW courtesy of Joe Bennett
of JARB Software.  While offered for sale by JARB, it is reproduced
here with permission of the owners.  You are authorized to make copies
necessary for your own use, but you may not make copies for anyone
else.

A full manual, 27 pages in length, is available from JARB Software,
which will explain all the details of using this program.  The manual
may be ordered for $7 from JARB at 1169 Florida St., Imperial Beach,
CA, 92032.  California residents should add tax.  All orders should
include $1 shipping charge.

JARBCODE is the only program printed in this month’s issue of the
RAINBOW which is not included on the RAINBOW ON TAPE for May.

JARBCODE is an easy-to-use program designed to encode and/or decode
any alphanumeric message you wish to send or receive.  While no code
is totally unbreakable, it will be somewhat difficult for anyone not
knowing the key to break the code.

The program’s main menu offers you several choices.  The first you
will probably wish to use is "Code Choices."  Here, you will get
another menu which gives several options.  Choose the one you wish.
This discussion, however, will deal only with the straight numerical
code.

You need to remember which code choice you use.  That is the only way
the person who receives the message will be able to decode it (unless
he works for the CIA, KGB or so forth).

You must also note the code key.  For straight numerical code, you
enter any positive number and the computer will then assign the
following 25 consecutive numbers as its coding sequence.

When you type in your start number, press <ENTER> and the complete
sequence will be displayed.  If the sequence is satisfactory to you,
press "Y" and you will be returned to the Main Menu.  If you don’t
like the sequence, press "N".  Then, you will be returned to the start
of the straight numerical code section to select a new start number
for a different sequence.

Once you have assigned a start sequence, you can begin encoding
messages.  The computer will first ask whether a code choice has been
made.  Since you have made a choice, press "Y".  The 80C will then
tell you to "ENTER MESSAGE".

The computer will accept any alphanumeric character, including
punctuation and spaces.  A single message entry may not exceed 225
characters.  Punctuation and spaces count toward the 225 character
limit.

Type the message in slowly to allow the 80C time to process the input.
When the complete message has been typed in (or an error occurs) press
the up arrow key.  The computer will then display the entered message
and ask if it is correct.

If the message is not correct, enter a "N" or "NO".  Then the message
input procedure will begin anew.

If the message is correct, press "Y" or "YES".  The computer will then
encode the message and present the code on the screen.  If the coded
version is too large to be handled on the screen, the computer will
pause so you can copy that portion of the code down.  Press <ENTER> to
continue.

When you have copied the code to a piece of paper, press <ENTER>.  You
will be returned to the Main Menu.

The format for coded messages is: 

    1. The first quote mark shows the beginning of a coded character.
    2. The number is the number component of a coded character.
    3. The dash is a separator. 
    4. The letter is the character portion of the coded character.
    5. The next quote is the end of a coded character.  Quote marks do
       not have to be written down.

Codes will look like this: 25-B 20-; 2-F etcetera.

The Decoding process is also selected from the Main Menu.  Again, you
must select the type message you are receiving.  In this case, we are
using straight numerical code.

Once you tell the 80C that you are using straight numerical code, it
will ask for the code key.  The computer will set up an array for
decoding and will display a message for entering the message.  Once
you have read this message, press <ENTER>.

Now you enter each code pair at a time.  You type in the number, a
comma, and the letter.  If the "letter" is a punctuation mark, it must
be enclosed in quotes.  Each letter will show as it is decoded.  When
you have finished, type "00, ZZ" and the entire message will be
displayed.

There is no limit to the length of a message to be decoded.  However,
take care that it does not scroll off the screen before you copy it
down.

We hope you enjoy JARBCODE.

And we hope you have lots of secrets to keep you busy coding!
