REVERSI/OTHELLO

The final program in the board-games section of this book is REVERSI,
which is often called OTHELLO.*  Invented in the late eighteen
hundreds, it is played on an ordinary eight by eight board.  When it
is played on a board, you use pieces which have different colors on
each side. The game begins with four pieces placed on the center
squares.

From this point on, you move by placing one of your pieces next to a
computer piece or pieces, with another of your pieces further on.
When that happens, all the computer pieces "reverse" to become your
pieces.

Here's how it works.  Suppose a line of pieces looked like this:

    OXXXX

and you decided to put your piece (the O) at the end of the line like
this:

    OXXXXO

The computer pieces would reverse, so the line looked like this after
your move:

    OOOOOO
    
The game continues until every square on the board is filled, or
neither player can move.  As you can see, fortunes can change swiftly
in this game, as rows branching off your position (such as on the
diagonals) can be changed with a single move.

If you cannot move at any time, you signal this to the computer by
entering a zero.

REVERSI is a very enjoyable game to play. Writing in Creative
Computing magazine (June 1981, p. 188), David Levy tenders the opinion
that it is "one of the best games ever invented, simply because the
rules can be learned in no more than a minute, yet the game can take
years to master."  He goes on to observe that although the game is
much simpler than chess, it is more complex than checkers.

Although the modern game is called Othello, and was "invented" by Goro
Hasegawa in Tokyo in 1971, the only difference between it and Reversi
is the fact that the first four positions must be as in the sample
game you'll see following this description.

Back in the 1880s, when the game was first invented in London, two
gentlemen -- Lewis Waterman and John W. Mollett -- both claimed to be
the originators of the game.  Stephen Kimmel (writing in Creative
Computing magazine, July 1981, p. 94) says he believes Waterman has
the strongest case for being the inventor of Reversi, because he had
the details published first in a series of articles in the magazine,
"The Queen" (which concentrated on "affairs of interest to ladies").

Regardless of who should get the credit, Hasegawa, Waterman, or
Mollett, it is a great game, and this program (based on one written by
Graham Charlton) puts up a spirited defense.

* Othello is a registered trademark of Gabriel Industries, Inc., USA
  and Mine of Information, UK.
