J/K DRAW

  From Way Up and Way Over Here's J/K Draw
  by Aaron Franksen


As you might expect, when we get mail from Cleveland, we don't rush to
the road atlas to see if it's the largest city in Ohio.  On the other
hand, when we get a cute little program sent to us from Revelstokc,
British Columbia, it's reach for the World Book time.

Aaron Fransen lives in this westernmost province of Canada and we like
to think he uses his CoCo in the seclusion of a small cabin in the
Monashee Mountains near Glacier National Park.  There's probably a
deer gracing in the meadow just outside his window, and maybe he uses
his CoCo to plot the migratory patterns of wild geese. He's probably
snowed in for the winter and will have his next issue of the Rainbow
delivered by dogsled.

Yeah, that's what we like to think.  Aaron, if you're the manager of
the local McDonald's and drive a Dodge, just don’t tell us, okay?

More than anything else, what does set Aaron apart from most of our
contributors is that he's developed a program in non-Extended BASIC.
We agree with him that more programs are needed that do not require
ECB.

J/K Draw uses both the right joystick and the arrow keys to draw block
graphics pictures on the low resolution screen.  Once you’ve completed
a masterpiece, you can save it to tape, too.

Writes Aaron, "I have found that young children enjoy this program a
lot when they get the hang of it." Some of us who aren't children, but
who treasure and cling to those childlike qualities we still manage to
possess, like J/ K Draw, too.  The colors are brilliant and clean.
Doodling with J/K Draw is sort of like playing around with Magic
Markers, those fell pens with the wide tips.  We tried our hand at
drawing a little cabin in the woods.
