States

This game was stimulated by a ten year-old with an intense dislike for
geography.  He was supposed to learn the names of the states and their
relative placements, and he liked to play games on the computer.
So...

The States program holds in memory the two-letter abbreviations of all
fifty names.  These are the same abbreviations that are acceptable to
the post office.  The complete list can be found in nearly any almanac
for recent years.

The program also knows a clue about each state.  There are ten clues
in all, and for the most part they have a boundary or border
connotation.  For example, Alabama (AL) has a shoreline on the Gulf of
Mexico.  If the clue that is printed is GULF, a player might guess AL.
If the guess is correct he or she then "owns" that state; if not, he
or she simply loses the turn to the second player, who may then guess
which other state it is that the computer is holding.

As the players watch each other's guesses one should eventually score.
The program then moves the state to that player's account, and picks
another from the shrinking list.  The first player to own the names of
ten states wins the game.

Although there are fifty states, the ten clues are not evenly
distributed at the rate of five states per clue.  One of the clues is
ATLANTIC.  Fourteen different states will prompt that clue.  At the
other end of the scale, only one state (WV) will trigger CHARLESTON
clue.  The ten clues and their relative distributions are as follows.

    PACIFIC 3 
    ATLANTIC 14 
    CANADA 5 
    MEXICO 3 
    GULF 4 
    LAKES 6 
    REMOTE 2 
    RIVER 5 
    WESTERN 7
    CHARLESTON 1 

Variety abounds in this business, and the clues and their actual
assignments were all my own whims.  You may agree, or you may wish to
coin other clues or assign them differently.  The design of the States
program makes it easy to vary these things -- handy when some players
get most of them down pat.

In fact, an advantage of having this program in your library is the
variety of games that can be spun off of it.  Other lists -- the names
of the months, astrological signs, psalms, and so on -- can be easily
overlayed with their own sets of clues.  All of the driving mechanics
of the program are insensitive to the names that are being guessed.

There is value offered by this program for other reasons also.  The
method used for accepting player inputs can be useful in a variety of
programming problems.  The method that is used is described best in
conjunction with a look at the overall structure of the States
program.
