SPEND YOUR ALLOWANCE

Skill area: Mathematics
Level: 2, 3, 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

A Monthly Income

Your parents have decided to give you an allowance of $10 each month.
Ten dollars sounded like a fortune at first, but the world is full of
exciting things to buy.  If you spend wisely, your allowance will be
increased.  What does wisely mean?  How can your parents know whether
buying a hamster or going to the movies is important to you?  You'll
have to spend your money the best way you can.  If you spend your
money unwisely, however, they may deduct a dollar from your monthly
income.

"Spend Your Allowance" is full of situations that suddenly pop up.
You may have to buy a birthday present, or you may be able to pick up
some money doing chores around the house.  When you get any extra
money, keep it if you wish, or spend it if there's something you'd
like to buy.  It's your money.

How to Play

A game consists of 12 months, with four spending decisions each month.
The computer will ask you to buy one of three items.  Sometimes you'll
see two or three items you'd like to have.  Other times, nothing will
look very appealing.  In any case, choose the item you'd most like to
purchase.  Indicate your choice by pressing the number 1, 2, or 3.

Every month the computer will tell you how much money you have at the
end of the month, how much your allowance is for next month, and what
your total amovmt on hand is.  For example, if your first month's
allowance is $10, and you spend $12, you will have a balance of -$2 at
the end of January, but your $10 allowance will bring your total
amount on hand to $8 for February.  Random events throughout the game
may increase or decrease that amount.

If you spend wisely in any month, you may hear a musical signal at the
beginning of the following month, along with the news that your
allowance has been increased.  Your allowance can be increased only $1
at a time, but it can be raised as many months in the year as your
parents choose.  Remember that unwise spending may cause your parents
to reduce your allowance by a dollar per month.

Scoring 

At the end of the game the computer will tell you how much your
monthly allowance was and how much you had on hand at the end of the
year.  You will then be given three options:

Press 1 to start the game over.  Your allowance will be $10, just as
it was at the beginning of the last game.

Press 2 to continue the game that you just finished.  Because this is
just a continuation, January will be considered the first month of the
next year.  You can play Spend Your Allowance for as many game years
as you want, and your ending allowance can be astronomical if you
spend your money wisely.

Press 3 to end the game.

Note to Parents

Do you want to use this game to teach your children to spend their
money wisely?  Appendix D describes the technique used by this program
to determine if the monthly allowance should be raised or lowered.
Changes to this program can easily be made by referring to Appendix D.
