SKY-EYE

Aye, Aye, Aye... My Sky Eye

That dynamic trio -- Illustrated Memory Banks, Drury High School and
the RAINBOW -- bring you another exciting game for fun and frolic this
month.  Its called SKY-EYE and is the creation of Fred B. Scerbo, vice
president and software author for IMB and another Drury High student,
Robert Dobbert.

If you recall SNAIL INVADERS from the February issue, then you will
remember the saga of Dale "Snail" Haggerty, who helped Scerbo with the
graphics for that game.  Not to be outdone, Dobbert, 16, got busy with
SKY-EYE.  He comments: "Making this was more fun than high school
math!"

Among other things, SKY-EYE features an antimated title card which
uses the text screen while the graphics screen paints the high-res
game field.  It also has a very rapid joystick control.

As with all software in the RAINBOW, you are authorized to make two
copies of SKY-EYE for your personal use only.  No part of this program
may be reproduced or adapted for use with any other program.

Because it uses a speedup routine, do not try to run it until all
program lines are entered.  When you save it to tape, type POKE
65494,0: CSAVE "SKY-EYE" <ENTER>.  If your computer hangs up on the
PLAY and SOUND commands, eliminate all the POKEs in the program (lines
1, 87, 89, 91, 94 and 107).  Note this program also gives four colors
in PMODE 4,1.

The plot: SKYâ€”EYE floats above the Big Apple, protecting its people
from shooting stars which threaten the city.  Use the right joystick
to move SKY-EYE back and forth.  The fire button will cause SKY-EYE to
detonate.

If five shooting stars hit the city, it will be destroyed.  Each
destroyed shooting star earns 25 points.

By the way, are there any other students out there writing programs?
We would like to consider them for possible listing in the RAINBOW.
