ENEMY ATTACK

  by Charles Ehninger

The problem with most action games written in TI BASIC is their speed.
Because they are so slow, the author must limit himself to no more
than three moving objects (as in pong-type games).  More than three of
these "sprites," and the player soon falls asleep.  This is the hammer
with which my Assembly programmer friends beat me over the head every
time we have coffee together.  I am a BASIC programmer, I love
challenges, and I don't want any more lumps on my head.  So I
accepted, and here is my reply: An action game with many "sprites"
that is guaranteed to keep you awake until 3 o'clock in the morning.

My first task was to design the game.  No more space or intergalactic
nonsense for me!  I much prefer war games now, so I borrowed an idea
from World War II.  To be conclusive, my game needed to have several
moving objects: I included seven aircraft, 9 missiles and forty-five
blinking, changing and disappearing stars.  Is the game exciting?
You'll be the judge... but first let me tell you that I had trouble
finishing the program because I found myself playing the game â€”trying
to repel wave after wave of invaders -- until 3 or 4 o'clock in the
morning!

In this game, you are flying a reconnaissance mission when your radar
alerts you to an enemy attack.  The enemy is flying three squadrons of
six aircraft each, led by the "rookies."  Your radio is out, so you
can't alert your base.  You must fight all by yourself, because if you
let a single airplane get behind you (or you let them destroy you),
your home base will be lost.  Fortunately, your plane is equipped with
a triple-missile guidance system.  That is, it can monitor (visably on
the screen) the flight of up to three missiles simultaneously, whereas
the enemy is equipped with single-missile systems.  To launch a
missile, you must press the ENTER key.  (After launching three
missiles, the ENTER key will be deactivated until one of your missiles
disappears from the screen.)  You may also change your location to
intercept the enemy.  You may move up or down by pressing the
corresponding arrow key, or you may remain in one place by depressing
any other key.  Once the motion is selected, it will remain active
until changed. Whatever your command, hold the key down until the
"acknowledge tone" is emitted.  The tone indicates that your command
has been received.
