MR. PRESIDENT

Skill area: Social Studies
Level: 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

"Mr. President" is designed to teach facts about the United States
presidents.  You are given clues and then asked to identify the
president from the clues.  Points are given depending on how many
clues you need to identify a president.

How to Play 

You will be given up to four questions that can be answered with the
name of a particular president.  To begin the game, hit any key and
wait ten seconds for the computer to organize the questions.

When a question is asked by the computer, answer it by typing the name
of the president as it appears below.  The computer will count any
misspelling as an incorrect answer, so make sure to enter the names
exactly.  If you don't know the answer to a clue, take a guess, or
press the RETURN key.

Here are the United States presidents whose names youH be using:

    J Adams        J Garfield    L Johnson    F Roosevelt
    Q Adams        U Grant       J Kennedy    T Roosevelt
    C Arthur       W Harding     A Lincoln    W Taft
    J Buchanan     B Harrison    J Madison    Z Taylor
    J Carter       W Harrison    W McKinley   H Truman
    G Cleveland    R Hayes       J Monroe     J Tyler
    C Coolidge     H Hoover      R Nixon      M Van Buren
    D Eisenhower   A Jackson     F Pierce     G Washington
    M Fillmore     T Jefferson   J Polk       W Wilson
    G Ford         A Johnson     R Reagan

You'll notice a few things about this list.  First, the men are listed
by first initial rather than first name.  Second, there is no period
after the initial as it is written for the computer.  Third, because
there are two presidents with the name J Adams, John Adams and John
Quincy Adams, the two presidents have been distinguished by referring
to the latter as Q Adams.  Pay close attention to these rules.  If you
know the answer to a question is Abraham Lincoln and you enter the
words Abraham Lincoln or even A. Lincoln, the computer will count your
answer incorrect.

If you still haven't discovered the name of a president after four
questions, the name will appear on the screen.  A second or two after
the name flashes, the game continues.

You can quit plapng at any time by entering END on the keyboard.  Your
percentage score will not be affected if you quit before all questions
have been asked.

Scoring 

Points will be awarded as follows:

    If you guess correctly after only 1 clue, 4 points.
    If you guess correctly after 2 clues, 3 points.
    If you guess correctly after 3 dues, 2 points.
    If you guess correctly after 4 clues, 1 point.
    If the computer has to show you the correct answer, -5 points.

Your score is shown at the end of the game.  You will also see a
percentage score.
