UFO is a strategy game in which you play against the computer in a
life-and-death struggle for superiority of space.  It takes place
after a space war with another planet in which both earth and the
attacker's planet are destroyed.  Both planets -- basically similar in
strength, social structure, and scientific awareness -- realizing they
are doomed, lanuch a "lifeboat" into space.  The lifeboats are equally
armed and powered.

However, the aliens are much better marksmen, hitting once out of
every two shots (in lines 880-890, the computer's odds are set).  The
reason is as follows.  The enemy ship's decision is made by the
program; the enemy will only retreat if he feels you are ramming and
will approach only if you are running and/or his fuel is running out
(smaller weaponry eats up less fuel).  He will only use option 6 (no
move but gains fuel) if his energy is below a certain point.  In other
words, you can think, while he cannot.  You have the advantage of your
mind, so the alien has been given the advantage of a good steady aim.

The game is set in the future: civilization is destroyed, 150 people
are left, and you are in command.  The enemy has never truly been
seen, as many enemies are never truly seen, but nevertheless you must
destroy him or be destroyed.  Your weapons are explained and the game
begins.  In your command ship is a control which will not allow you to
make an illegal move.  This control waits after you fire for the shot
to reach the other ship and for the explosion reports to reach the
ship.  It then gives a full report of power drain of both ships.  If
your power is not negative you are still in the game but once it drops
below zero your crew dies (the energy level is the amount of energy
left to counteract the attack.  If more energy hits the ship than was
repulsed, the ship is destroyed.  If the amounts are equal then the
ship had exactly the same amount of energy as the attack drained.)  If
in any game you can get close enough to your enemy to use your heavy
guns without frightening off the enemy (5000-11000), the game will
last for quite a long time.  Theoretically this game will last forever
if played logically.

Written by Raymond J. Kernay, UFO first appeared in Creative Computing
in Jul/Aug 1977.  A modified version called Star Wars appeared in
Sep/Oct 1978.
