MOIRE FRINGES

  Some Beautiful Patterns from "Down Under"

  by R.T. and D. Delburgo
  Hobart, Tasmania, Australia

Most of you will have noticed the beautiful fringes which are produced
when two net curtains are placed against one another -- a slight
movement in one of the curtains causes an appreciable movement of the
fringe system.  These interference fringes are called after Moire and
they have important scientific applications in registering and
measuring small relative movements.

The high resolution graphics on your 80C are well suited to exhibit
Moire fringes and we have listed below four sample programs which
demonstrate the nature and motion of the resulting fringes.  As far as
we know, the idea has not been mentioned before in the Rainbow or in
any other computer magazine, and we can foresee many striking
applications of the concept in the hands of the software experts.
Being complete novices in computing (having had an 80C only three
months), we must apologize for the primitive nature of the programs.
Experts may enjoy streamlining and speeding them up, particularly
listing four, and generally exercising their skills on them.  The only
bit of spice we have added is a randomization of the colour schemes
every time the programs are rerun.

It is unnecessary for you to type all the listings separately -- just
alter the heading lines, the subroutine lines and lines 13, 17, 21.

Obviously, an infinite number of variations on Moire fringes is
possible.  You might like to modify the spacing of the individual
families of intersecting curves (but be careful not to make the
spacing exceed four times the actual line width or you will run out of
graphic pages, and be sure you have the same spacing on each graphic
page), or you might prefer to obtain high resolution (we have stuck to
the 4 color Pmode 1).  The more enterprising among you may devise new
families of intersecting curves (waves, spirals, conic sections,
etc.), and for luck you might venture to add another intersecting
family of curves.

Have fun, the possiblilities are endless! 
