Randolf of the Moors

  by Gregory Clark 

In the year 974 AD was born a male child.  The parents, being very
poor even for peasants, indentured the child to their local lord.

The boy grew up within the castle walls, never seeing the outside
world except through the tales of the knights, overheard while he
fought with the castle dogs for scraps of food under the banquet
tables.

Never having been given a proper name, he thought of himself as Sir
Randolph of the Moors.  All of his waking moments he envisioned
himself as the victor of many jousts, and even as the leader of a band
of knights on a quest for the king.

Being a rather husky young man, he was given the task of cleaning the
lord's stables.  Every chance he got, he learned to ride within the
confines of the stable.  This in itself showed a certain level of
bravery, for if he was discovered even mounting a noble's steed he
knew at the least it would mean a stout whipping.

One fateful day, he happened upon a complete suit of armor belonging
to a knight visiting the castle.  What possessed him to don the armor,
even he had no idea. Once suited, the logical step would be to set
astride the knight' s horse.

As fate would have it, no sooner had he positioned himself on the
horse than one of the castle dogs started barking.  The high spirited
animal immediately galloped out the open stable door and through the
castle gates, carrying Sir Randolf with him.

"Oh, what tricks the lord plays on me," lamented Sir Randolf, when he
finally regained control of the horse.  He found himself many miles
from the castle, in completely unfamiliar surroundings, realizing that
if he returned to the castle, an unknown, but definitely unpleasant
fate awaited him.  After long deliberation, he decided to continue on
the road and let fate do what she willed.

Hungry and weary, after several days of riding, he came upon a small
village situated at the base of a towering mountain.  Here, his
physical needs overcame his natural fear of the unknown.  He boldly
rode into the town, and when he had reached the inn, he realized that
a not-small group of townspeople had already formed around him.  More
came from every direction.

Helping hands assisted him from his mount and fairly carried him to
the inn.  He was taken to a table, and even before he was seated a
large tankard of ale and a sizeable chunk of venison were placed
before him.

Removing his helmet, he tried to explain his lack of funds.  However,
he was told that everything had been arranged and not to worry.
Having failed in his protests, he began to devour the fare.

A commotion at the entrance interrupted his meal.  Looking up, he
spied a rather rotund man approaching.  Speaking very rapidly he
greeted Sir Randolf and thanked him for arriving so quickly.  Randolf
may have been short on worldliness, but he was bright enough to
continue eating and just listen.

It seems the stranger was the equivalent to mayor of the village.
Randolf soon pieced together an idea of what he had happened upon.

Near the peak of the mountain was a castle of an evil lord, Blandor.
He had demanded and reccvied heavy taxes for so many years that the
village was now near collapse.  Anyone opposing him was disposed of by
either his guards or by some magical means.  Recently it had been
rumored that he had fallen ill and had died and his guards fearing
loss of his magical protection had fled.

Three weeks ago, prior to this moment, the mayor had requested from a
neighboring lord the services of a knight to explore the castle and
prove the rumor true or false.  The town's messenger, a not-too-bright
lad, had forgotten most of the reply by the time he had returned.  The
only thing he was sure of was that the knight carried the sign of the
unicorn on his shield.

Randolf now realized his situation: the mount and armor he had
acquired belonged to the knight promised to the town.  The townspeople
were counting on him to go to the castle and discover exactly what was
going on.  He decided to attempt the quest himself.

After two days of rest, he mounted up and headed to the castle.  After
a few hours of travel, a dark-cloaked man appeared on the trail ahead
of him.  He introduced himself as Herman, former wizard to the evil
Lord Blandor, who had discharged him after learning all he could of
his craft.

Herman had observed Randolf and had correctly deduced his plight.  In
an attempt to help, he presented Randolf with a pea-sized ruby.  The
gem had the ability to break minor magical spells, but most of its
power was exhausted.  Only five charges were left. Now, Randolf was
told to rub the stone if he felt magic was being used against him.

Herman also mentions that there may be something left in his former
workship, but not to count on it, as Blandor had removed or destroyed
most of his supplies just before casting him out.  The ruby is the
last magical object he has left.

Randolf now stands before the castle of Blandor.  An ignorant, but not
stupid stable boy, he is ready to attempt the work meant for a
fully-trained knight.  All he has with him is the sword, dagger, a
small belt pouch from the knight's equipment, and the ruby from
Herman.  The armor he has left in town, finding it too confining.

There you have the situation.  Randolf is a healthy young man, strong
of heart and spirit, but sadly lacking in any knowledge needed to
complete his quest.

It is up to you to guide Randolf along the way.  He will show no
initiative, including self-preservation.  You will be in total control
and must make your instructions very simple and, at the same time,
precise.  If Randolf knows an object by one name, for example, he will
not react to another common name for the same object.

He best follows instructions given in two parts.

First, tell him what action you wish him to perform, and then specify
to or with what.  For example: The instruction "lift up the black pot"
will only confuse him.  However, just the word "lift" and then the
word "pot" will get the desired results.

Some one word commands will also be understood.

"VIEW" will give a general description of the present location should
Randolf forget where he is.

"LIST" will get you all the objects Randolf is carrying -- that he can
see.

Randolf will tell you which ways he can see to move.  To get him to
move, just give him the first letter of the direction.  For example,
to have him move north, just give him the letter "N" and he will go
north.

Just remember. Randolf will only do what you tell him -- no more, no
less.
