[This game is Part 4 of 4 of The Sorcerer's Puzzles IV.  See "Vortex",
"Jump Away Solitaire", and "Flat Cubes" for Parts 1, 2, and 3.]

(From Color Computer Magazine, November 1983.)

LOGICOLOR

A hidden four-color code is generated.  The object is to guess the
code within 15 tries.  Colors used in the code are yellow, blue, red,
white, cyan and magenta.  The code may be of four different colors,
all the same or a combination of the six.

After the program flashes the words PREPARE TO BREAK COLOR CODE, an
orange cursor will appear at top right of the screen.  This cursor can
be moved among four positions on the line by tapping the left and
right arrow keys.  To set a color in any of the four positions, tap
the first letter of the color chosen: Y for yellow, B for blue, R for
red, W for white, C for cyan and M for magenta.  The color will then
blink on to the left of the cursor.  You may change the color by
simply setting another over it.

When you have set four colors on a line, tap the E key to register the
turn.  At this point the program checks your guess against the hidden
code, and to the right of the line gives two kinds of clues: POS for
correct color in correct position and COLOR for correct color in wrong
position.  Example: If you guess red-red-white-white and the hidden
code is red-white-blue-blue, the clue message will be POS: 1 COLOR: 1,
meaning the red guess is the right color in the right position and the
white guess is the right color in the wrong position.

After clues are given, the orange cursor goes to the next line for
another round.  You have 15 tries to guess the code.  If the code
remains unsolved after that turn, the color code is shown.  The
program also acknowledges winning guesses.
