STARTRENCH WARFARE

  Now: Get a 3-D View of Space 

  by Fred Scerbo 

Most arcaders are looking for rapid-fire action and colorful, hi-res
graphics.  Add to this the latest revival of the 3-D craze and you
have "Startrench Warfare" 1.0 from Illustrated Memory Banks.

The following program is offered as an exclusive to readers of the
Rainbow.  You will find that it is a very short program (only 27
lines) which will just fit in 16K.  While you don’t need a pair of 3-D
glasses to thoroughly enjoy this game, you will get an added
perspective of depth by wearing standard 3-D glasses while running it.

3-D, for that matter, seems to be a variation of the CoCo's excellent
graphics that opens a whole new area to explore.  This article and
program are but one of two which will appear this month on the same
subject.  If 3-D is an area of interest to you, you might wish to look
up the other available in a magazine.  It will appear in 80 Micro's
third anniversary issue.  And, if you don’t have a pair of 3-D
glasses, 80 Micro has a pair for you -- bound inside the magazine.

Both the Rainbow and 80 Micro offer pretty much the same thing -- a
3-D-like program.  For many persons, adding the glasses will give the
appearance of depth -- but will not give you true "jump-out-at-ya"
3-D.  We believe such an effect is possible, and would encourage
readers to share thoughts and programs which do this.

The quality of the 3-D effect will -- we have found -- depend on your
own eyes' registration of color values as well as the ability of your
monitor or TV set to produce accurate colors.

Now, a few words about Startrench Warfare:

The program does not need the POKE65495,0 speed-up to run.  You may
wish to add this command when running the program for some added
punch.  But, make sure to POKE65494.0 before you CSAVE it (Use
CSAVE"ST*TRNCH").  You may make two copies for your own use only.  The
program uses PCOPY and hi-res page flipping to add to the sense of
movement.  You will also get four colors in PMODE4,1.  This is where
the 3-D feel will come in.  Since 3-D glasses use red and blue filters
to cancel opposing images for the right and left eyes, use of the
glasses with this program will cause an optical shift which will give
a "3-D like" effect.  (This will not give a real sense of depth but an
illusion which does cause enough of an optical shift to appear much
more dramatic than you can get without the glasses on.)  You may wish
to experiment by trying to draw opposing objects in blue and red to
give your programs a 3-D look.  Due to the intensity of the images
produced by the 80C, it is difficult to get total right-left optical
image cancellation.  Still, you can try.

Also, you may wish to try using glasses on other 80C games.  Alpine
Aliens, which we printed several months ago, works fine, as will
Kosmic Kamikaze and Creatavader.  Radio Shack's Polaris ROM cart also
gives some nice effects with the glasses.  You can open up a whole new
world with your color games by using the glasses.

The object of the game is simple. (Yes, this is another "shoot-em up."
We're working on others.)  You pilot your ship down the moving trench
of the space station.  You must blast the alien craft which appear
ahead of you.  Press the fire button on your right joystick to fire.
The craft will appear in nine possible positions. (3 up and down, 3
left and right.)  Aiming is not too difficult, but you have no
crosshairs.  The gauge at the top of the screen shows how much energy
you have left.  At the end of the game, you will see how many of the
attackers you have destroyed.  (Top score so far is 45 aliens!)

Very soon, IMB will release a 32K version of this game which will do
much, much more.  Until that time you may enjoy this game as part of
our continuing effort to keep providing exciting software for your
80C.
