GIN

For Its... Gin, Gin Gin

Yes, Virginia, there are computer widows everywhere.  But Ronald
R. Smith of Chicago says he thinks he's solved some of the problem in
his house.

Mrs. Smith, it seems, is an avid gin player.  And, while she can't
stand the COLOR Computer Ron recently purchased, she'll play a hand or
two of gin any time.

The version of gin played by most is "Hollywood," with three games
going on at once.  After each hand, the winner scores in all three
games (assuming he has won at least three hands).  At the end of the
game, when all three hands have "gone out," each player gets so much
for each point, so much for each "box" (or hand won -- sometimes
multiplied by three, depending on the number of active games at the
time) and so much for winning each of the three games.  Usually, its a
penny a point, quarter a box and a dollar a game.

Sometimes the scorekeeping can get fast and furious.  Ron, however,
has designed a scorekeeper for the COLOR Computer, with the listing
below.

"This program looks pretty easy, but it isn't because there is a lot
of comparing to do," writes Ron.  "For instance, you can't score in
game two until you've scored in game one.  The same goes for game
three.  Also, once you reach 150 in any game, that game is over and
here is no further score allowed by either player in that game.  It
did take some doing to figure out and I'm pretty proud of it."

Best of all, as far as Ron is concerned, Mrs. Smith now sees the value
of the computer.  And, when she's not playing gin -- Ron usually gets
to program without any hassle.

The program is pretty easy to run, just load, answer the questions and
start dealing.  You could tie this to a screen monitor to see the
progress of the game as well.

By the way, the RAINBOW would be interested in any further success
stories in demonstrating applications to the non-computerists who
(generally) live with us.  Let us know your story and send in your
program.

(Rights to GIN listed have been sold to FALSOFT.)
