GREATER THAN WHAT?

For Parents and Teachers...

This game helps children learn the size relationships between numbers.
It shows them two numbers, and then asks them if the first number is
greater than the second, less than the second, greater than or equal
to the second, or less than or equal to the second.

The game helps children learn the number comparison symbols: >
(greater than), < (less than), >= (greater than or equal to), and <=
(less than or equal to).

For Kids...

Numbers describe things -- apples, dragons, mudpies, and worms.  The
bigger the number, the more things.  For example, if a blue room has
1000 worms in it and a red room has 2 worms in it, which room has more
worms in it?  The blue room, right?

That's because a 1000 is *greater than* 2.  You can compare the
numbers by drawing a thousand worms and then two more worms.  Or you
can take a shortcut and write:

    1000 > 2

The > symbol means *greater than*.  A thousand is greater than two.

You can also write the numbers like this:

    2 < 1000

The < symbol means less than.  Two is less than a thousand.

But what happens if you are out exploring an enchanted forest some
afternoon after school, and you discover two caves?  You turn on your
pocket flashlight, enter one cave, and find 14 dragons.  You back out
carefully, enter the second cave and find 14 more dragons.  You sneak
out of the second cave and run all the way home.

You call the police and the fire department.  Moments later, they are
at your front door.  They ask you what you saw.

To describe what you just saw, you take out a piece of paper and draw
14 dragons and then 14 more dragons.

You look at the cave pictures with all the dragons.  Which cave had
more dragons?  Neither.  They both had the same number of dragons.
You can draw a big = (equal sign) between the two pictures of dragons.
Or you can take a shortcut and write:

    14 = 14

But what if you change your mind? In the first cave (the dirty cave),
you think you saw shadows of other dragons.  That means the dirty cave
might have more dragons than the clean cave.  You know that the clean
cave had only 14 dragons.  But some extra dragons might have been
hiding in the dirty cave, behind the dragon garbage and the piles of
old bones and dirty treasure you saw.

Now you can't say how many dragons were in the dirty cave.  You use
the symbol X to represent this mystery number.  Is there anything you
can say about X?

Yes.  You know X is at least 14 and maybe more.  You can write this
as:

    X >= 14

This means that X is *greater than or equal to* 14.  You can also
write this as:

    14 <= X 

This means 14 is *less than or equal to* X (the number of dragons in
the dirty cave).

The police and fire fighters are satisfied with your description.
They fly in a dragon S.W.A.T. team from China.  The team comes
equipped with lots of silk dragon nets.  You lead the team back to the
caves.  You hope that there aren't too many more dragons in the dirty
cave.

After you return from dragon hunting, sit down at the computer and
play the Greater Than What? game.  The computer flashes two numbers on
the screen.  You have to decide if one number is greater than the
other; or less than the other; or greater than or equal to the other;
or less than or equal to the other.

Think of the numbers as dragons. 

In this game the computer expects a yes or no answer.  You give a
"YES" answer by pressing the ENTER button.  You give a "NO" answer by
pressing the SPACE bar.
