[Note: This game was published with a number of bugs.  I hope they've
been resolved in this version.]

TIC TAC TOE

Most of us became familiar with the game of "Tic Tac Toe" in early
childhood.  In fact, this game has been around for hundreds of years.
In view of its popularity, it is no wonder that so many have attempted
to write programs to simulate this game on various computers.  In "Tic
Tac Toe," two sets of parallel lines are drawn at right angles,
resulting in nine areas into each of which an "X" or an "O" is
entered.  Two competing players take turns entering their respective
symbols.  As soon as one of the players has succeeded in completing a
horizontal, vertical, or diagonal line of his symbol, he is considered
the winner.  Even though the game appears to be rather simple, a good
player exercises considerable strategy when playing.  It is clear, for
example, that given a choice, a player should always opt to go first.
The reason for this is that since there are only nine boxes available,
if he goes first he can make five moves against the opponent's four.
Not only that, but having the first move permits him to immediately
take the center box, which is common to both diagonals, the center
horizontal, and the center vertical lines.  At the same time, good
strategy demands that you always block your opponent's attempt to
achieve a line of three adjacent (identical) symbols while trying to
get a line of three yourself.

The version of the game which we have written for the TI-99/4A permits
the player to pit his skills against those of the computer.  The human
player may choose the symbol "X" or "O" and is even permitted the
opportunity to select whether he or the computer goes first.
