This children's card game for any number of players is also called
memory, or pelmanism.  It is easy to play and is an excellent test of
memory and observation.  The computer version here simulates the
actual game except that it only allows one player to play.  In the
actual game, one player shuffles a deck of playing cards and lays them
face down on a table in all directions and so that no card is touching
another.  Each player tries to collect as many cards as possible by
turning up pairs with the same rank per a number or picture.  The
first player to go turns over two cards to random and allows the other
players to see them.  If the rank of the two cards is the same, for
example, two aces or two kings, he takes them and may turn over two
more cards.  He continues in this way until he turns over two cards
that do not match.  These cards are then placed back down in their
original positions, face down, and his turn then ends.  The play then
passes to the next player.  This player turns up one card.  If it
matches one that has already been turned over, he must try to remember
where that card is.  If he is successful, he takes the pair.  He
continues his turn until he fails to turn over a matching pair.  Play
continues in turn until all the cards have been collected.  The winner
is the player with the most cards at the end of the game.

In this computer version of the game, the cards are numbered on their
face down side from one to fifty-two.  As you turn over two cards,
their rank is typed on the terminal.  If they do not match, their rank
is obliterated by successive type-overs with other characters.  This
is analogous to the situation of placing the cards back down on the
table face down.  Also in the computer version of the game there is
only one player trying to get all fifty-two cards in as few moves as
possible.

This game is good fun on a CRT terminal.  Also, why not try modifying
it to allow play by two or more players?
