MYSTERY SPELL

  by Doug Hapeman

  "Mystery Spell" is an educational program which uses sprites to make
  spelling practice more entertaining.  The TI Extended BASIC module
  is required.

"Mystery Spell" is a teaching aid for parentSy teachers, and students.
Spelling lessons can be reviewed and then practiced with a simple
guessing game.  The object of the program is to try to guess the
secret word by selecting the correct spelling.

Mystery Spell is similar in concept to the popular Hangman game, but
with a different twist.  Rather than using the negative symbols used
in Hangman, Mystery Spell reinforces the positive emotions with
balloons, blackbirds, and a happy face.  The smoothness of moving
sprites and the addition of music give Mystery Spell an edge of
fascination over most versions of Hangman.

Happy Face and Blackbirds

When the game begins, a happy face appears in a little hut surrounded
by trees and landscape.  The letters of the alphabet appear near the
bottom of the screen, and blank spaces representing the secret word
appear near the top.  Each time a letter is pressed, the happy face
moves to the selected letter and indicates if it is a correct choice.
For each correct choice, a colored balloon rises to the appropriate
place in the secret word and the letter is displayed.  If the choice
is incorrect, a blackbird descends and lands somewhere on the
landscape.  Too many blackbirds will cause the player to lose, and the
word will be spelled correctly.

The two levels of difficulty are: easy, which permits six incorrect
guesses, and difficult, which allows four.

The player may use the 20 words provided within the program or enter a
different word list.  A user-generated word list may be SAVEd to a
storage device.
