ROULETTE

ROULETTE is the king of gambling games.  This computer version, which
faithfully follows the rules of roulette, will allow you to painlessly
test your favorite "system."

This game plays with an American wheel, which has the numbers 0 to 36,
plus double zero.  The program speaks faultless French, as do all good
croupiers, inviting you to place your bet with the words MESSIEURS,
FAITES VOS JEUX (Gentlemen, place your bets).  Note that the
difference between the European and American wheels is discussed at
the end of this introduction.

Some of the numbers on a roulette wheel are red and the balance are
black.  Among other bets, you can bet on the ball stopping on any red
number, or any black one.

After the computer has told you how many chips you have, and asked you
to place your bets, you'll be expected to enter a letter between A and
Q.  Q tells the computer you wish to quit (withdraw from the game),
and the other letters determine which kind of bet you wish to place,
according to this key:

    A - a single number
    B - two adjoining numbers
    C - three numbers in adjoining columns
    D - six numbers in adjoining columns
    E - four numbers in a square
    F - numbers 1 through 12 ("The First Twelve")
    G - numbers 13 through 24 ("The Second Twelve")
    H - numbers 25 through 36 ("The Third Twelve")
    I - numbers 1 through 18 ("Low")
    J - numbers 19 through 36 ("High")
    K - 12 numbers in a horizontal row
    L - two adjacent horizontal columns
    M - any red number
    N - any black number
    O - any even number 
    P - any odd number
    Q - to quit the game

The red numbers are:

    1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 12, 14, 16, 18, 19, 21, 23, 25,
    27, 30, 32, 34, 36

The black numbers are:

    2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 15, 17, 20, 22, 24, 26,
    28, 29, 31, 33, 35

Here's what a roulette table looks like:

         NOIR       PAIR      PASSE
    34r 31b 28r 25r 22b 19r 16r 13b lOb 7r 4b 1r 0
    35b 32r 29b 26b 23r 20b 17b 14r 11b 8b 5r 2b
    36r 33b 30r 27r 24b 21r 18r 15b 12r 9r 6b 3r 00
         ROUGE      IMPAIR    MANQUE

As you can see, the table has three words above, and three below, the
numbers.  These are noir (black), pair (even), passe (numbers 19
through 36), rouge (red), impair (odd) and manque (numbers 1 through
18).

I deliberately did not include a printout of the roulette table within
the program.  A black and white display like the table given demands a
screen width of 48 characters, which is greater than the screen width
of many popular computers.  As well, you are certain to be able to
create a very good display using either colored graphics (which would
get rid of the "r" and "b" after the numbers) or inverse numbers for
the black ones and standard numbers for the white on a monochrome
display.

In fact, you do not need a roulette table display within the program
to run it.  You may as well use this book.  The most important thing
about the program is its method of accepting and processing bets,
after spinning the wheel, so I've concentrated on this.  However, if
you want to dress the program up a little, you can do so easily by
incorporating a printout of the table.  You may well wish to include a
spinning wheel as well.

A European roulette table has the numbers 1 through 36, plus zero,
while the American table has a double zero as well.  It comes as quite
a shock to innocent folk like me to discover that while the house take
on all bets on the European wheel is 2.70% on all bets (except the
even money chances, where it drops to 1.4%), the house take on the US
wheel is almost doubled to 5.26%.  Our wheel, as you know, follows the
US system.
