Quantal

Quantal; An adjective meaning data that fits into only one of two
categories.  Typical quantal elements are yes or no, true or false, on
or off, all or none.

This game has two quantal properties.  Each player has ten switches;
some may be on and some may be off.  The object of the game is to get
all of your switches set alike at the same time -- either all on or
all off. If you do so before your opponent does you win the game.

Problem: the switches are all hidden.  In the beginning the program
sets up all of both player's switches -- purely at random.  Some may
be turned on and some may be turned off.  It is even possible (in
theory at least) that they could all be initialized to the same
setting.

In your turn you may interrogate only one switch.  Any one.  This is
done by entering a number between one and ten, inclusive.  The
response will be simply ON or OFF, as the case may be for that switch.
You are then afforded the opportunity to leave the switch as you found
it or ask that it can be changed to its opposite setting.

The program doesn't look at all of a player's switches until after he
or she has taken a turn.  Because all ten could be on (or off) at the
outset, for the first turn at least, any one switch should be checked,
but left alone.  There doesn't seem to be any good reason for changing
the state of that first switch.  It could be correct as is.

A player could win right from the start, but he probably won't.  The
randomizing scheme that is used sets up the switches individually.
The odds that ten random settings (in a row) will come up the same
must be astronomical.  But it could happen.

After the first turn both players are entirely on their own.  One
might adopt a strategy of setting all switches to the same position as
that of the first one looked at.  This would produce a winner in a
maximum of ten rounds.  Maybe even less.  Only nine turns would be
required if the final switch is already in the correct state.  In the
same way only eight turns would be required if the two switches left
for last had been initialized to match the chosen pattern.  Equally
maybe, however, Lady Luck could favor the opposition.

Simple strategies and a lot of luck.  But the kids will love it -- and
you too, for the short hour that you will spend adding this program to
your library.
