Hark!!  The weary Wumpus hunter, wan from 50 days in the Terminal
Converns, exhausted and with all of his arrows expended -- (A groaning
Teletypes roars at a sleepy student.  Maps litter the floor covered
with circles and integers.  With callused fingers, the immortal Wumpus
player looks up with bloodshot eyes and implores: "How do I get out of
here?")

I suspected that the dodecahedron may prove a bit boring after a few
thousand games, so I wrote Wumpus 2 to extend your pleasure.  Some of
the more mathematical minded may have noticed there are lots of ways
to link caves with three tunnels apiece.  Some of these patterns are
topologically interesting...

Wumpus 2 is the same old Wumpus in different settings -- including
those of your own design.  As you play in the different caves, you
will notice that the game changes in difficulty and strategy.  Now to
a description of the various caves in Wumpus 2.

CAVE 0 (Dodecahedron)

This is the same old Wumpus with which you are familiar.

CAVE 1 (Mobius Strip)

Since my original vision was topological, here is the first wonder of
topology, the Mobius strip.  Take a strip of paper, give it a
half-twist and join the ends into a loop.  The result has just one
side and one edge (if you disbelieve, take a pencil and go around the
thing).

A perceptive player will note that the placement of the pits influence
the game.  Two pits placed just right (around 5% of the games have
this) will force a detour back around the strip in certain cases.
Getting around is slower than in Cav 0, but it is easier to search the
place.

CAVE 2 (String of Beads)

See the diagram for this one.  Here, placement of the pits will often
make parts of the caves inaccessible except by bat-express.  (Can you
see why?)  Play in this cave is frustrating until you have gone to the
trouble of making a reference map; otherwise you keep coming back to
your starting point.  (Look at the diagram and see how this may be
so.)

CAVE 3 (Hex Network)

This is my attempt at a torus (doughnut).  If you can visualise a
hexagon net like a honeycomb or a tile floor and stretch it onto a
doughnut, you've got it!!  The drtawing tries to shows this, but if
you prefer, think of it as a complicated molecule of some sort.  Play
in this one is very similar to CAVE 0.

CAVE 4 (Dendrite)

Up to now, each tunnel leads to another cave and only one tunnel
connects a pair of caves.  This need not be a strict rule and the next
two caves illustrate variations on this.  The dendrite is a branching
pattern like a tree or a plant.  At the ends of the plant are "leaves"
which are caves leading to themselves or multiple tunnels.  This cave
is especially susceptible to severance by pits and getting stuck in
corners near the wumpus.  A nice thing is that you often will know
exactly where the Wumpus is when you come near him.

CAVE 5 (one way streets)

This is the extreme example of all tunnels are one-way.  You will find
that getting about this cave is like travel in Los Angeles -- much
going to get to the neighbor's house.  If you overshoot, you must
travel all the way around, just like missing a freeway offramp.

CAVE 6 (Do Your OWN)

Draw up a map of caves, each cave with tunnels GOING TO three (exactly
three) caves (same or different).  Then the computer will ask you for
the numers of the destination tunnels for each of the 20 caves in
Wumpus.  When you have it entered, play Wumpus on your own caves.  Let
me know of your favorite ones, and your most frustrating ones!!!

FINIS

In any case, Wumpus has spawned several versions and spread about the
computer games-dom really nicely.  For myself, the soul of the game is
in the idea and fun of it rather than the program or the computer
which hosts it.  I feel that all really good games will turn
programmers on enoughg for them to write it for their system from the
idea alone and encourage games writers to think carefully on the art
and esthetics of their games before writinga line of code.

Wumpus-2 and this description are products of Gregory Yob.  They
appeared previously in Creative Computing, Jan/Feb 1976 and the game
in People's Computer Co.
