BLACKJACK

"Blackjack," sometimes known by its other name, "Twenty-one," is not
only a popular game in households across the nation, but is also one
of the most popular games found in casinos around the world.  The
reason for this popularity is probably the fact that its rules are
rather simple.  Although there are many versions of the game in
existence, the version we have designed for the TI-99/4A contains all
the essentials, but includes certain restrictions in order to keep the
program within manageable proportions.  This game permits up to three
players plus a dealer (the role played by the computer).

The object of the game of "Blackjack" is to acquire a hand that totals
21 or comes as close as possible to 21 without exceeding this limit.
(Going over 21 is generally referred to as "busting.")  The hand with
the highest total not exceeding 21 is considered the winner.  Each
player is dealt two cards initially.  At his or her turn, each player
has two options: to receive a card (to be "hit") or to stay with the
present hand (to "stand").  The player may ask to be hit as often as
desired (or until he busts), but once he stands, his turn is over and
the next player takes over.  The dealer goes last, and is special in
several senses.  First, the second card dealt to the dealer remains
face down (hidden) until the end of the game.  Second, if the dealer
busts, all other players who have not themselves busted become
winners.

In "Blackjack," the suits (hearts, clubs, diamonds, spades) have no
effect upon the game, and therefore are not displayed.  Nevertheless,
the game is played with fifty- two cards.  All picture cards (jack,
queen, king) are regarded as having a value of 10, while the ace can
assume the value 1 or 11, at the option of the player.
