QUIZ SHOW

This game helps children learn some interesting facts.  The questions
in this game can be easily replaced by questions focusing on a
particular subject: history, geography, current events, language arts,
etc.  Also, many new questions can be added.

The game is self-grading.  It keeps track of the children's correct
and incorrect answers.  The children's score is printed at the end of
the quiz.

For Kids...

Pretend that you get a letter in the mail.  You have been invited to
be on a TV quiz show!

You go to the library, and take out dozens of books.  You read the
newspaper every day.  You study your encyclopedia.  You feel so full
of facts and figures that they might soon pop out of your ears!

The big day arrives.  You go to the TV studio.  The show begins.  They
put makeup on your face, so you don't look pale under the cameras.
The stage is hot.  The lights are bright.  You feel nervous.  Here
comes the first question: Who is the father of our country? George
Washington? John Adams? Thomas Jefferson?

For a moment, you throw a blank.  None of the names sounds right.
Then you recover.  "George Washington?" you say.

The quiz show announcer's happy face appears.  "Right!"  he says.
Happy music floods the studio.  The other kids look at you enviously.
How could you be so sharp, so cool under pressure?

You relax.  This is going to be easy.

Background...

The Quiz Show game was designed by Scott Rainey and Brian Francois,
students at Patrick Henry High School in Roanoke, Virginia.

The boys had only two weeks to put this program together.  Also, they
had to use a faulty program recorder.  At the end of each day they
would save the current version of their program.  The next morning
they would try to load the program back into the computer.  But the
program had disappeared.  The recorder had "eaten" it!

In order to complete the program on time, the boys had to get
permission to skip some of their classes at school.  They finally
completed the program on the day it was due.

They write: "In order to complete this program, we had to overcome
many obstacles.  We hope that your child will learn and benefit from
our work."
