MOTHER EARTH

Skill area: Social Studies
Level: 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

Exploring the World

"Mother Earth" is actually two games -- one a question-and-answer game
concerning the world's major countries, and the other a similar game
concerning countries that are not as prominent in world affairs.  More
than 120 countries are represented in Mother Earth, but geography
buffs will note that other smaller countries (many of them possessions
of Great Britain) are not mentioned in the game.  If you want to
include other countries, you should refer to the Programmer's Notes.

Typing Mother Earth 

Mother Earth has been divided into three separate programs.  All three
programs can be merged to make one very large program and will
function as one program with all the countries.  The second option for
entering it is to create two separate programs.

To create two separate programs, first type in and SAVE Program 1, the
Main Listing.  The Main listing will be used with both sets of data
programs.  Once Program 1 has been SAVEd to disk or tape, LOAD it back
into memory.  Then type in Program 2 and SAVE the whole program
(Programs 1 and 2) to disk or tape.  If all goes well you will have a
complete working version of Mother Earth which includes only the
countries listed in group 1.

To create the second version of Mother Earth, containing the
information about the other group, simply reLOAD Program 1 and add to
it Program 3.  Once you have Program 1 and Program 3 together in
memory, SAVE it to disk or tape.

How to Play 

After loading Mother Earth 1 or Mother Earth 2 into the computer,
you'll be asked to choose the area of the world you wish to cover.
These include:

    A  Europe
    B  North Africa and the Middle East
    C  Africa
    D  Asia and the Pacific
    E  Western Hemisphere

Questions will be asked about the countries in the area you choose.
Points are given depending on how fast you identify a country from the
clues given.

You'll be asked up to five questions about each country.  Identify the
country by typing in the name.  Because these names must be spelled
correctly for the computer to count the answers correct, the spellings
appear alphabetically, by game, below:

Mother Earth 1

    Afghanistan   Germany         Lebanon        Spain
    Argentina     Ghana           Liberia        Sudan
    Australia     Great Britain   Libya          Sweden
    Austria       Greece          Mexico         Switzerland
    Brazil        India           Namibia        Syria
    Cambodia      Iran            Norway         Taiwan
    Canada        Iraq            Pakistan       Turkey
    Chile         Ireland         Panama         Uganda
    China         Israel          Paraguay       United States
    Cuba          Italy           Peru           Uruguay
    Denmark       Ivory Coast     Saudi Arabia   USSR
    Egypt         Japan           Scotland       Venezuela
    Ethiopia      Jordan          Senegal        Vietnam
    Finland       Kenya           South Africa   Zimbabwe
    France        Korea

Mother Earth 2

    Albania              The Gambia        Philippines
    Algeria              Guatemala         Poland
    Angola               The Guianas       Portugal
    Bahamas              Guinea            Puerto Rico
    Bangladesh           Haiti             Qatar
    Belgium              Honduras          Rumania
    Benin                Hungary           Sierra Leone
    Bolivia              Iceland           Somalia
    Botswana             Indonesia         South Yemen
    Bulgaria             Jamaica           Sri Lanka
    Burma                Kuwait            Tanzania
    Cameroon             Lesotho           Thailand
    Colombia             Luxembourg        Togo
    Congo                Madagascar        Tunisia
    Costa Rica           Mauritania        U. Arab Emirates
    Cyprus               Morocco           Yemen
    Czechoslovakia       Mozambique        Yugoslavia
    Dominican Republic   The Netherlands   Zaire
    Ecuador              New Zealand       Zambia
    El Salvador          Nicaragua
    Gabon                Oman

The countries represented in Mother Earth 1 and Mother Earth 2 are
divided according to the relative importance of the country in the
geographical section of the world where it is located.  You may argue
that Guatemala or Poland isn't in the same class as Togo or South
Yemen, but the former countries occupy the same relative status in the
Western Hemisphere and Europe as the latter countries do in Africa and
the Middle East.

If a question is asked that you don't know the answer to, you should
make a guess or press the RETURN key.  Up to five questions will be
asked randomly about each country; one of the five questions will
always be the country's capital or capitals.  The last question will
always be a multiple-choice question.

You can quit playing at any time by typing END and pressing RETURN.
Your percentage score will not be affected if you quit before all
questions have been asked.

Scoring

Points will be awarded as foUows:

  If the question is answered after 1 clue, 5 points.
  If the question is answered after 2 clues, 4 points.
  If the question is answered after 3 clues, 3 points.
  If the question is answered after 4 clues, 2 points.
  If the question is answered after 5 clues, 1 point.
  If the computer has to answer the question for you, -5 points.

At the end of the game, a numerical score will be shown.  A percentage
score will also be given to let you know the grade you earned.  You
will then be asked if you want to play again.
