THE PIED PIPER

For Parents...

This is a memory and concentration game.  The computer creates a chain
of colors and musical tones.  The colors and tones are represented by
the keys 1 to 4 on the computer keyboard.  First the colors are
displayed and the tones play, and then the child presses the keys.
The keys have to be in the same sequence as the colors and tones.  If
the child can remember the exact sequence of colors and tones, the
chain grows one link at a time.  You can adjust how many colors and
tones the child has to remember to win the game.

For Kids...

In this game, the computer becomes a Pied Piper.  It plays a musical
tone and flashes a color on the TV screen, and you have to follow it.

The computer starts by playing a single tone and flashing a 
single color.  If you press the right button, the same tone plays 
and the same color flashes on the TV screen.  You won the game. 

The computer asks you: "AGAIN? (PRESS ENTER)."  If you press any other
key, the game is over.  If you press ENTER, the computer plays a new
tone and flashes a new color.  If you press the right button and match
the color and tone, the computer then plays a second tone and a second
color.  Then it repeats the first tone and the first color.  Now you
have to press two buttons.  The first button is for the first color
and tone. The second button is for the second color and tone.  If you
get them both right, you win again.

But the computer still isn't done.  Now it is ready to challenge you
with three colors and three tones.  If you press the right three
buttons, then it comes back with four colors and tones -- and on, and
on.

How high does the computer go? The computer will play 50 games in a
row.  It has only 4 colors and 4 tones to work with.  But it can piece
these together into a string of up to 50 colors and tones.  If you can
remember 50 colors and tones in a row, the computer gives up. You are
a genius!

The object of the game is to see how long you can follow the computer
Pied Piper.  It keeps stringing colors and tones together.  And you
try to match those colors and tones by pressing the color/tone buttons
in the right order.

When the computer flashes the color red on the screen and plays a low
F note, you press the 1 button.

When the computer flashes the color green and plays a middle F note,
you press the 2 button.

When the computer flashes the color blue and plays a high F note, you
press the 3 button.

And when the computer flashes yellow and plays a high-high F, you
press the 4 button.

What happens if the computer strings four colors and tones in a row?
Here's an example.  If the computer:

    FLASHES  RED    RED    YELLOW   GREEN
    PLAYS    Low F  Low F  Hi-Hi F  Middle F

You wait until the computer plays the four colors and notes.  Then you
press four buttons: 1-1-4-2.  The computer will print a happy face.
You won!

If you missed one of the colors (say you typed 1-1-3-2), the computer
will print a sad face and then ask you if you want to start a new
game.
