Roulette

Outside it is dark, the sun having gone down now some two hours.  On
deck all that is heard is the frogs on the bank, and the soft lapping
of the paddle wheel on the oily black waters og the Mississippi.  The
year is 1850 and we are aboard a River Queen, just out of New Orleans.

Inside it is warm, and the air hangs heavy with cigar smoke.  There
are muted sounds of chatter and occasional laughter.  Then, above it
all, "Ladies and Gentlemen, place your bets please!"

Roulette is the most glamorous of all gambling games.  As you watch
the whirling ivory ball spin around the wheel, you can almost see
gentlemen in tall silk hats and ladies in satin gowns. And perhaps
even Lady Luck herself hovers nearby.

In this, our microcomputer version of Roulette, certain changes were
made to the traditional game.  Some were necessitated by computer
mechanics; some others were merely my choices.  Likely as not, Mark
Twain, that champion of the riverboats of old would approve.
Hopefully, you will too.

PLAYING ROULETTE 

You can bet on any number -- zero through thirty-six -- and if the
number that comes up is the same that you entered you win five times
your bet.  You may also bet on the color, red or black.  There are
twelve red numbers and twenty-five black ones; the computer knows
which are red because they are the ones that can be evenly divided by
three.  If your choice of color is the right one your bet is tripled.
If not you lose twice what you bet.

Two other betting options include odd/evens and high/low.  If you do
guess correctly on whether the number that comes up is odd or even,
you win double; otherwise you lose your bet.  The high range of
numbers is all of those above eighteen, and low is considered those
from zero through eighteen.  A win or a loss in this case is even
money, based on your bet.

After you have placed your markers on each of the four options -- you
can pass on any of them -- you are asked to input your bet.  The
computer-cum-croupier then spins the wheel.  Up comes the results,
your winnings (or losses) are tallied, and the game goes on.

To retire and leave town with your winnings, enter a zero bet.  The
program will ask you if naught was intended; if your answer is
affirmative, the game will end.  Because there is a variety of options
posed, such as this, there is a rather intelligent error-checking
feature in the program.  A lot of the fun in playing Roulette, as
provided here, is in seeing the variety of messages that will be
printed following careless keystroking.

Computer gamesmen will take notice that this is solitaire, and it ends
only on command (the zero bet), with no replay option.  These are
departures from normal, and there are a few others inside of the
program itself.  In the study that follows some of its concepts are
useful for other game programs.
