UNICORN

Skill area: Social Studies
Level: 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

Mythology

"Unicorn" is a history game of people who never were.  The 37
characters whose lives are presented here lived only in the minds of
the ancient Greeks and Romans.  These are the heroes and heroines of
Greek and Roman mythology.

YouH be asked up to 5 questions about each of 37 Greek and Roman
mythological heroes.  The questions will be presented in random order,
so every game of Unicorn is different.  Points are given depending on
how many questions you use to identify the hero or heroine in
question.

How to Play

To begin the game, hit any key.  Because of the amount of data in
Unicorn, there will be a ten-second delay after the key is pressed
before the game begins.

When a question is asked by the computer, type the name of the
mythological hero or heroine on the keyboard.  If you can't guess the
name of the character from the clue provided, hit the RETURN key.

Abbreviations and misspellings are incorrect answers, so you must
write out the full name of the character.  Many of these characters
have both Greek and Roman names.  For example, the Greek god Hermes is
identical to the Roman god known as Mercury. Unless otherwise
specified, Unicom uses the Greek name, and the Roman name is
considered an incorrect answer.

If you are unable to guess the hero or heroine's name after the first
four questions have been presented, the fifth is a multiple-choice
question.  The correct name will then flash on the screen if you still
can't identify the character.

Anytime you wish to end the game early, type END instead of making a
guess on any question.  You will not be penalized if you end the game
before all questions have been asked.



The names of the 37 mythological characters depicted in Unicorn are
listed below as a spelling aid:

    Achilles    Daedalus   Mars        Persephone
    Aeneas      Dionysus   Medea       Perseus
    Agamemnon   Echo       Medusa      Phaeton
    Andromeda   Hades      Narcissus   Poseidon
    Aphrodite   Hecate     Odysseus    Prometheus
    Apollo      Helen      Oedipus     Sisyphus
    Artemis     Heracles   Orpheus     Tantalus
    Athena      Hermes     Pandora     Theseus 
    Cassandra   Jason      Pelops      Zeus
    Circe

Scoring

Points are given in Unicorn as follows:

   If you get the right name after only 1 question, 5 points.
   If you guess after 2 questions, 4 points.
   If you guess after 3 questions, 3 points.
   If you guess after 4 questions, 2 points.
   If you guess after 5 questions, 1 point.
   If you are still unable to guess the name of the mythological
       character, -5 points.

At the end of the game, you will see the total number of points, as
well as a percentage score.
