LAWN MOWER

Skill area: Mathematics
Level: 3, 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: No

The Summer Job 

Dad's decided the time has come to teach you a little responsibility.
This summer, you won't get an allowance.  You're going to enter the
world of high finance instead.

Your job is to mow lawns in the neighborhood.  Dad will let you use
his power mower, and he'll lend you $15 to get your business started.
The rest is up to you.

You'll get $5 for each lawn mowed, but you're responsible for buying
supplies.  You have to buy gasoline, oil, and plastic bags.  And once
in a while, the lawn mower blades must be sharpened.  The $15 Dad
loaned you is for supplies.

How to Play

At the beginning of the summer, and again at the start of each month,
the computer will ask you what supplies you want.  You may purchase to
9 gallons of gasoline, at the current price.  You'll also be asked how
much oil and how many leaf bags you want to buy.  Again, choose a
number from to 9.  Finally, you need to decide whether you want to
have the lawn mower blades sharpened.  The lawn mower can't run
forever on dull blades.

Once you've pvirchased your supplies, it's time to start mowing lawns.
You can mow as many lawns per month as you have supplies, but once you
run out of gas or oil or plastic bags, or your lawn mower blades get
dull, you can't mow any more lawns for the rest of the month.  Buy
your supplies wisely.  Wait for a good price on something before you
stock up, but make sure you don't run out.  If you do, it's going to
be a long summer.

Watch the screen to see your progress.  You'll hear the soxmd of the
lawn mower as the grass is mowed.  When each lawn is mowed, the
computer will give a running tally of how many gallons of gasoline you
have left, how much oil you have in reserve, and how many plastic bags
you have on hand.  Keep this tally in mind when you're purchasing
supplies next month. After all, you don't want to end the year with
256 plastic trash bags!

Scoring

At the end of the summer, you'll find out your cash balance and your
balance after paying Dad his $15.
