PLAN A MENU

Skill area: Science
Level: 3, 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

Making Meals

"Plan a Menu" lets you pick a sample meal.  Then the computer tells
you how nutritious the meal is and how much weight you would gain or
lose by following such a meal-planning strategy all the time.

How to Play

The game begins by asking for your sex and your age.  Indicate the
proper answer by typing M, F, or the numerical age.  Press the RETURN
key to enter the information.

Next will appear a number of foods from six different food categories:
main courses, vegetables, fruits, breads, drinks, and desserts.
Category by category, choose the foods you would pick for a sample
meal.  Make your selections by typing the letter that appears to the
left of the item.  To move to another category, press the letter Z.

Choose as many items from a particular category as you wish.  If
nothing in a category looks appealing, by-pass the category altogether
by pressing Z.

When the sample menu is complete, the computer will analyze it to see
what quantities of the following items it contains:

    calories     riboflavin
    protein      niacin
    vitamin A    calcium
    vitamin C    iron
    thiamin

The computer multiplies all totals by 3 to indicate what percent of
the minimum daUy requirements of those calories or nutrients you would
get if you ate three similar meals in a day.  The percentage total for
each item will be printed next to its name.

Scoring

Each sample meal is rated according to the number of calories it
contains and the amount of nutrients found in the chosen foods.  The
computer rates each meal fair, average, good, very good, or excellent.

Each meal also is evaluated to tell you how many pounds per week you
would gain or lose if all your meals contained the same number of
calories as the sample meal.  The calorie count applies to an
average-sized person whose metabolism burns food at a normal rate.
Overweight or underweight players should take this into account and
use calorie charts, not Plan a Menu, to determine how many calories
they should consume.
