BOOK REPORT

For Parents and Teachers...

This game will help children with their writing assignments,
especially book reports.  The program asks the child for pertinent
information -- the date, the child's name, the author, and the title
of the book.  Then the computer asks the child "WHAT HAPPENED FIRST?"
When the child enters this information, the computer asks "WHAT
HAPPENED NEXT?"

The child responds to the computer's questions and enters the report,
sentence by sentence. When finished, the child types END or THE END.
Then the computer prints the entire book report, all nicely formatted,
on the TV screen.

For Kids...

Did you ever have to write a book report or tell a story, and you
didn't know where to start?

Here's a sure-fire way to get you going.  Pretend that the computer is
a person.  And imagine that the person can hardly wait to hear about a
neat book you just read or a story you made up inside your head.

What does the person ask you to get you started?  He says, "What
happened first?"  So you tell him.

It sounds exciting, so he asks, "What happened next?"  So you tell him
that, too.

Each time you tell him a little bit of the story, he wants to hear
more.  So he keeps asking "What happened next?"

Before you know it, you've finished describing the book you read or
the story you made up.  When he asks you "What happened next?" you
simply say "END" or "THE END."

Then, sit back.  The computer hasn't forgotten a word you said.  It is
going to replay the entire story or book report right before your
eyes.

As it types the story on the TV screen, you can be busy copying it in
your notebook.  Then it's ready to turn in to your teacher at school
tomorrow morning.
