[This game is Part 1 of 4 of The Sorcerer's Puzzles IV.  See "Jump
Away Solitaire", "Flat Cubes", and "Logicolor" for Parts 2, 3, and 4.]

(From Color Computer Magazine, November 1983.)

SORCERER'S PUZZLES IV

  Oh no!  The Sorcerer has been kidnapped by Questigians!  Quick --
  solve these puzzles!

  by Richard Ramella

"Sorcerer Goldberg has been kidnapped by the Questigians," announced
Bob, the twisted major domo who runs the Sorcerer's castie.

"Oh no!" cried Sunflower.

"What should we do?" wondered Poke.  He and Sunflower were apprentice
sorcerers.

"Do whatever you want," said Bob.  "As for me, I've raided the
Sorcerer's private supply of strawberry seltzer tonic, and I'm going
to relax with a cool drink. "

"You don't care about the Sorcerer's plight?" asked Sunflower.

"Of course I care," said Bob.  "Without his magic, the strawberry
seltzer tonic won't last forever."  He mused to himself, "I wonder if
the wizard made a will or if I simply become lord of the manor by
default?"

"As his apprentices, we've got to look for him," Poke said.  Sunflower
nodded.

"Whatever," said Bob, "but if you come back, I'm boss.  I'd advise you
not to go.  It's dangerous out there."

"You forget we traveled overland to get here," Sunflower reminded him.

"You came from the south, which has only dragons, pitfalls, slime
creatures, giant rabbits and ambulatory poison ivy.  Questigian
Country is to the north, and it really gets rough that way. "

"What are the Questigians like?" Poke wanted to know.

Bob shuddered. "The worst of the worst.  You'll know when you meet
one."

"And why have they kidnapped the Sorcerer?" Sunflower asked.

"For the sheer exhilaration of being mean," answered Bob.

And with that encouraging thought, the boy and the girl left the
castle on a cold, gray and windless morning, trekking north across a
sere landscape of moors and winter-dead meadowland toward the blue
mountains of the north.

In the afternoon they rounded a bend in a rocky path and came face to
face with a Questigian.  It was fat, half their size, and its face was
faintly reminiscent of a bulldog's slobbery scowl.  It stood on quite
bowed legs.  "Stand and deliver!"  it commanded in a high voice, at
the same time drawing back a pace.

"We're already standing," said Sunflower, "and I'm going to deliver a
quick shot to that lightbulb you call a nose it you don't tell us
quickly what you've done with Sorcerer Goldberg!"

The fierce and pugnacious Questigian responded by squealing and
retreating forty feet up the path.  "You'll never find him!  No one
can get past the clever traps we've set with Vortex, Jump Away
Solitaire, Flat Cubes and Logicolor.  Want to know the rules of play?"

"Put this guy down for about two watts of brainpower," Sunflower
murmured to Poke.  "And take notes.  It looks as if we're going to
have to pass some tests before we find Sorcerer Goldberg."

The Questigian spilled out all the rules of play for the traps ahead,
then hopped up the mountain and out of sight.  When he was gone, Poke
read his notes aloud.

VORTEX

An orange square is drawn, and within each of its four sides is a
small cyan section.  At the center of the square is a magenta dot
representing the player.  The player dot is maneuvered by tapping the
four directional arrow keys.  The dot will be drawn back toward the
center of the vortex if the secret, correct sequence of moves is not
made.  The correct sequence may be understood by the clue provided by
the Questigian: "Traveling somewhat like a knight, some forward and
half of that right."  Escape comes when any of the cyan wall sections
are touched. The game is lost if an orange section of the wall is
touched.
