ENGULF

In this game, you are in control of the space-cruiser Borealis,
seeking to make space safe for the fun-loving human race.  There is a
single nasty alien making trouble in the corner of the universe you're
patrolling.  Your job is to "engulf" the alien, immobilizing him, by
destroying all the sectors of space around him.

Both you and the alien (shown as an "A") are unable to move onto the
outer border of the area of space under view.  These "out of bounds"
areas are indicated by "-" marks, as you can see in this printout:

   -> HIGHEST SCORE SO FAR IS 0  <-
   -> ALIEN SENSES DANGER FACTOR 0  <-
   ------------------------------------
   ----> ALIEN NOW AT 4  8
   -> TIME LEFT: 30 --- LASERS FIRED: 0
   ------------------------------------
       12345678910
     1 ----------
     2 -********-
     3 -********-
     4 -********-
     5 -********-
     6 -********-
     7 -********-
     8 -**A*****-
     9 -********-
    10 ----------

    WHICH SECTOR WILL YOU SHOOT AT?
           ACROSS? 4
           AND DOWN? 7

The alien doesn't have to change locations on every move.  However, if
he does decide to move, it may be by one or two squares from his
present position.  You isolate the alien by blasting areas of space
out of existence.  You enter the coordinates of the space you want to
destroy as two numbers, as you can see here.

As I said earlier, you "engulf" the alien by destroying all the
squares onto which he could move.  Note that you're not allowed to
land on the alien, and will destroy yourself if you do.  The alien
keeps a watch on the space around him, and signals to your computer
the degree of danger he senses in his present position, so you can
follow (more or less) what the alien is thinking.

You'll discover that the best strategy is to trap the alien against
one of the sides of the grid.  This limits his potential moves.  Of
course, the alien is aware of the danger of being caught near the
sides, and uses his limited intelligence to try to keep away from
them.  Try to build a "fence" of blank areas in a curve around the
alien so that you can force him to move into a side.
