STRONGHOLD OF THE DWARVEN LORDS

Deep beneath the earth you go, far into the Dwarven Heartland.  Danger
is on every side as you descend, but your greed draws you on.
Searching through the dusty stacks of uncatalogued manuscripts in room
546B of the British Museum, you came across a faded, and almost
illegible map to a Dwarven hoard of gold, and since that day, you have
been obsessed with the idea of finding it.

As you go down into the labyrinth, you realize that the Dwarven Lords,
who secreted the gold here 7389 years ago, have long since become
extinct, so the main danger you face is from the layout of the cavern
system itself, rather than from Guards of the Stronghold.

In STRONGHOLD OF THE DWARVEN LORDS you are in a cavern which holds the
gold.  Each time you play this game, the gold can be in one of three
places.  The only information you get as to your progress is
information provided by the Dwarven Source Beam which you found as you
made your way into the cave system.  This gives you feedback after
each move as to the location of the gold, but you need to learn how to
interpret the information it gives you before you'll be able to make
much use of it.

The other information you get is in the form of a straight statement
regarding the directions you can move from your present position.
After each move ("step"), you'll be given a screen display like the
following:

    STEP NUMBER 49

    NORTH: WALL
    SOUTH: OPEN
    EAST: WALL
    WEST: OPEN
    
    THE DWARVEN SOURCE BEAM READS 10
    
Then you'll be asked to enter the direction you want to move, as
follows:

    Which direction do you want
    to move?

    N - north, S - south
    E - east, W - west, H - help
    ? W

You will not, as you probably realize, be allowed to walk through
walls.

The aim of the game, needless to say, is to reach the Dwarven riches
as quickly as possible.  To aid you, there is a map of the cavern
system from above, which you can call up from time to time.  The map
looks like this (with the walls shown as # symbols, and you shown as
*):

    North
    ###############
    #  ######## ###
    ## #####      #
    ## ##### ######
    ## #####    ###
    ##      ### ###
    #######  ##   #
    ####### ### # #
    ##  *     # ###
    ## ######     #
    ##     ## #####
    ###### ## #####
    ###### ## #####
    #      ##     #
    ###############
    South

There are two catches to calling up a map of this type.  First,
although your position is shown, the location of the gold is not.
Second, each time you enter "H" to get a look at the map, you'll be
penalized 15 steps.  Therefore, it is in your interests to use the
Help option as few times as possible.

Although there are some features which are common to each and every
cavern generated by this program (dictated by the data statements from
870 to 960), the cavern is not identical from run to run.  As well as
that, as I mentioned earlier, the gold itself can be in one of three
locations within the cave system.

The output of the program, as it is given in terms of the directions
you can take from your present position, could be modified to produce
a "3-D maze" output.  You know, from move to move, which direction
you're facing, and the computer knows which directions from that
position represent possible moves.  You would need to add a subroutine
which drew a picture of the situation immediately in front of you,
choosing from a bank of pictures (one with the area straight in front
of you clear but with the walls solid on either side of you, another
with entrances to the right and to the left but with the path straight
ahead blocked off, and so on) to produce a continuous picture of the
scene ahead.  This can be most effective, and may well be worth
implementing on your system.
