GHOSTHUNTER

Martin Richardson of Blackbury, Virginia, wrote me that his favorite
game in The Giant Book of Computer Games was THE BANNOCHBURN LEGACY,
an Adventure game set within a haunted castle.  Inspired by that
program, Martin produced this Adventure, which takes place in a house
which -- by one of those unexplained mysteries which crop up from time
to time -- bears an uncanny resemblance to Martin's own house.

The program accepts one- or two-word commands, some of which can be
abbreviated.  You move around the house with single-letter commands,
such as HN" for North, and so on.  Any command in the vocabulary that
follows which contains a ")" can be abbreviated to the letter which
comes before the ")":

    F)IGHT: This is used any time you wish to engage a creature in
      combat.

    R)UN: If the creature you encounter is too powerful for your
      liking, you can use this command to attempt to flee from it.

    GET: Use this command, followed by the name of an object, in order
      to pick up that object.

    DROP: This command, followed by the name of an object, allows you
      to get rid of the object.  You can't have more than one object
      in any room at the same time.

    N, S, E, W, U or D: Movement commands ("U" is Up, "D" is Down,
      etc.)
    
    I)NVENTORY: This will tell you the name of everything you're
      carrying.

    L)OOK: This command will get your computer to reprint your
      attributes (these are explained below) and the room description.

You have three attributes (or abilities).  There is also a "health
rating" you must keep track of.  Your dexterity measures how evasive
you are.  The higher this number is, the better are your chances of
not getting hit in a fight.  Your stamina measures how brave you are.
If you meet a monster with a higher score, you become frightened,
which makes it all the more likely that you'll be hit.  If you defeat
a monster, you get braver, and your stamina rating increases.

You have a speed score as well (as does the monster -- but you don't
get to see the monster's speed rating).  The difference between your
speed and the monster's affects, fairly predictably, your chances of
escape.

There are four health ratings: good, fair, poor and dead!  Each time
you're hit, your health goes one point down the scale.  If you're
clever, you'll discover how to restore your health if it is a bit on
the dull side.

Be brave now, and take on the Forces of Darkness, with GHOSTHUNTER.
