MATHPAL

  Keying Learning to Fun -- That's Mathpal's Answer 

  by Dave Hooper 

Mathpal is a program designed for children in grades one through five.
This program brings color, sound, high resolution graphics, and fun
into the art of learning mathematics.  The numerals used are bright
yellow on a blue background, making the visual appearance of the
problem itself much more attractive than the age-old black-on-green
style we are used to seeing in this type of program.  To break the
monotony of this type learning process, there is a reward given for
each problem completed successfully.  There is also an intermission
following the completion of every set of five problems, thus giving
the student a short break at specified intervals.  This is a program
that combines an arcade-style game with a learning experience to
produce hours of fun and education for your children.

Key this program into your 80C, then type CLOAD "MATHPAL" and hit the
ENTER key followed by typing RUN and ENTER once again.  Following the
introduction you will find a page of instructions explaining the use
of the control keys for Mathpal.  You may use these keys anytime the
computer is waiting for an answer to a problem. For example, let's say
the screen displays the problem "10 + 4."  If you would like to see
the answer, just press the letter "A"and the correct answer will be
displayed for a short period of time.  Then that problem is erased and
a new problem appears.  NOTE: You will not be credited with a correct
answer in this case.

The second option you have at this point is to press the "I" key,
which will display the instruction page for a review of the control
keys.  After you review, press the space bar and you will return to
your original problem.  Please note that anytime you return to a
problem from the instruction page, two zeros appear in the answer
block.  This brings us to the next option.  Pressing the "C" key will
clear any unwanted answer you may have in the answer block.  So, Press
"C" for clear and those zeros will go away.

If you should decide that the problems you have selected are too easy,
or too difficult, just press the up-arrow key.  This will return you
to the main menu, where you can reselect a grade level consistent with
your ability.  Each time you return to the main menu your total score
of correct answers is returned to zero, and starts over.  Your score
will continue to accumulate, however, regardless of how many times you
go to the instruction page.

The only remaining option is the "E" key, but first let me explain how
to enter your answers.  Your answer must be entered from the right to
the left, digit by digit.  For example, let's assume that your answer
is 976. First you would press the numeral "6" and you would see a "6"
displayed in the 1's column.  Then press the number "7" to see a "7"
displayed in the 10's column.  Finally you would press the number "9"
and watch the "9" be displayed in the 100's column.  If you are
satisfied with your answer, press the "E" key to enter your answer.
You'll know by the sounds and display if your answer is correct or
not.

Press the space bar, and progress into the program.  Displayed before
you now is one of two decisions you must make.  The first is your
grade level.  The three choices determine the degree of difficulty by
setting up the top and bottom numbers equal to higher or lower
variables.  Choice A sets a variable of RND(10) for the top and bottom
numbers of all the problems, except for multiplication which is a
RND(9) for the top number and one for the bottom.  Choice B sets the
variables to a RND(50)forthetop and bottom numbers and a RND(9) for
top and bottom numbers in multiplication.  Finally, choice C produces
a RND(99) in top and bottom numbers.  In mode C, the multiplication
numbers are RND(99) for the top and RND(9) for the bottom.  In all
three grade levels the top number will always be greater than the
bottom number in the subtraction mode.

Make your selection of a grade level and press ENTER.  Then select
addition, subtraction, multiplication, or all the above.  Press ENTER
once again, and you will be off to a world of education through
entertainment.
