MOSAIC PUZZLE

  by Bruce Jordan
  64 Translation by Chris Metcalf

This adaptation of an old favorite will challenge your reasoning
powers.

"Mosaic Puzzle" is a computer version of those sliding-squares puzzles
that used to drive people nuts before the advent of Rubik's Cube.  The
object of the game is to arrange the 15 squares into some
predetermined order by sliding them around in their frame.  The first
few moves are easy, but as the game progresses, it gets a lot more
complicated.  You'll find yourself rearranging everything just to get
the last few squares in place.

The game has a timer for up to 23 hours, 59 minutes, 59 seconds, and a
chicken switch.  It also automatically checks for the winning order
and allows you to go back to the puzzle the way you left it or reset
it to the beginning arrangement.

When you start the game, you're asked if you wish to set a time limit.
If you answer Y for yes, enter the time limit in one line with no
spaces or punctuation between the values.  For example, for a 1-hour,
23-minute limit, enter 012300.

Next, enter the goal order.  This will be the order that you will try
to match to win the game.  When this is done, the upper half of the
screen will clear, and the puzzle will appear.

Either the RETURN key or the fire button allows you to pause
momentarily before resuming the game, restarting the program, or
stopping play entirely.  Breaking off and resuming has no effect on
the time clock (displayed at the top of the screen along with the time
limit).

As an aid to the user, various keys for up, down, right, and left can
be selected at the beginning of the game.  A joystick can also be
used, as long as it is plugged into control port two. The time limit
is an option in this version; if no time limit is selected, the screen
will display elapsed time and TIME LIMIT: NONE.

If you succeed in getting the squares in the goal order, the message
YOU WIN! appears on the screen, accompanied by a short time and the
elapsed time.  If the time runs out before you are finished, you'll
hear an unpleasant sound.
