CALENDAR

This program, in effect, provides you with a perpetual calendar.  If
you are like the majority of people, you probably do not know the day
of the week on which you were born.  If you're at all curious, this
program is made for you.  What the program does is to permit a user to
type in any year of his choosing (after 1582, when the current
calendar was stabilized).  Then the computer asks for any month within
that year.  As soon as the month is typed in and the ENTER key
pressed, a calendar appears miraculously before your very eyes for the
entire month specified, from which you can easily see on which day of
the week any of the dates fall.  The year and month of your choice do
not have to be in the past, either.  They may just as well be in the
present, or any time in the future.

The program takes into account leap years as well.  For example, the
year 1984 is a leap year, because when divided by 4 it leaves a
remainder of 0.  But this is not the whole story.  Century years
(years whose last two digits are 00) have to be treated specially.  If
the year in question is a century year, it must be evenly divisible by
400 in order to be a leap year.  That is to say that the years 1700,
1800, and 1900, although evenly divisible by 4, are not leap years,
since they are not evenly divisible by 400.  The year 2000, however,
being divisible by 400 without leaving a remainder, is a leap year.
As you will recall, any year which is a leap year has one day added to
the month of February, giving 29 days rather than 28.
