(From Color Computer Magazine, August 1983.)

  by George Aftamonow

Friends gathering at my house for a party or informal get-together are
invariably drawn to my computer, looking for entertainment.  Most
computer games, however, can be played by only one, or at the most,
two users at one time.  Looking on during a game soon loses its
entertainment value for the rest of the gathering.

I decided that a game for a group was needed, and set out to develop
one.  CLICHE was the result.  It isn't an dxciting *adventure* game,
but it is a great party game for a group, and lets everyone see some
of the graphics the Color Computer can present.

After an introductory graphics and music presentation of credits and
program title (Lines 10-140), game instructions are printed on the
screen (Lines 150-270).  The program presents a diagram representing a
familiar cliche; players try to determine which cliche is represented.
The body of the program uses text screen (Lines 280-1050) and graphic
screen (Lines 1060-1350).  Players do not have to enter a response,
butthe program will verify an answer or give a correct answer upon
request.  Closing graphics and music follow (Lines 1360-1510).

To play CLICHE, load the program and run it.  The screen will present
a set of four clues for four cliches in a graphic depiction.  Players
must look at the relationship each part has to the other in order to
guess the answer.  Pressing the number of the cliche you are working
on will bring the correct answer onto the screen.  Pressing the C key
will present a new set of cliches to guess.  An example of the type of
graphic depiction to expect is presented in the screen instructions
that appear when you run the program.

CLICHE uses 8K and requires Extended Color Basic.
