DANIEL MORGAN'S MILITIA

In 1781, it looked as if the British would be the victors in the
American War of Independence.  Then they suffered a serious defeat in
the Battle of Cowpens -- which lasted little more than an hour --
against troops rallying behind General Daniel Morgan.

This program lets you play the part of General Morgan's troops in the
Battle of Cowpens.

There are ten levels of difficulty.  The British are represented by
the numbers at the bottom of the track.  They move relentlessly toward
your position at the top.  Your men are represented by the "V" at the
top.  You move it left (with the "Z" key) or right (with the "M" key),
and fire using the space bar.

Your score is related to two things: the numbers your shots destroy,
and their position within the British ranks.  As you can see, there
are four rows of British soldiers.  The top row is worth the least,
and those in the final row are worth the most.  You cannot shoot
"through" a soldier to hit the one behind him, but must blast the
front soldier first, to get a shot at those in the back rows.

Your troops have a limited number of shots (related to the level of
difficulty) and the game ends if the front row of soldiers (or where
they would be if they had not been shot by you) reaches your position.
(Note that after all the British have been killed, one more shot must
be fired to end the game.)  At the end of the battle, your troops will
be rated on their skill, which is calculated from the number and value
of soldiers shot, the skill level at which you played, and the number
of shots you've fired.

General Morgan, a nation awaits you.
