The computer will set up a 15x15 playing field in which you are
randomly located.  Also inside the field is an objective square, 30
blocked squares (walls), 22 relocation squares, and 1 super special
new maze squares, and, of course, the Twonky (which is no relation to
a creme-filled cupcake).

To win the game, you much reach the objective square before the Twonky
gets you, by moving one square at a time, forward, backward, right or
left.  Unfortunately, you are hindered by several things:

RELOCATION squares, when moved on, cause you to be randomly
transported to another position in the maze.

WALLS; you can't move into these squares, and lose your turn when you
hit one.

SUPER-MAZE-SQUARE; essentially an instant loss, since when you move
here a completely new maze is set up.

TWONKY; after every move, the Twonky moves toward you.  (He is
impervious to all traps, even walls).  When he gets too close to you
(2 or fewer squares), you lose.  However you are equipped with a
de-materializing ray gun.  You have the option of using this on your
turn.  If you hit the Twonky he de-materializes and then
re-materializes on a different square of the maze to resume his quest
after you.  (CAUTION: he could be dropped into your lap!)

After each move pair (you and Twonky), your distance from both the
Twonky and the objective square are printed.  There is no board
printout -- you play blind.  However, using the distance, you can home
in to the approximate position of both Twonky and objective.

When shooting at the Twonky, you do *not* have a shot if the distance
he is from you is not an integer.  For example: If the Twonky is
2.23606 units away, you don't have a direct shot.  If he is 4 units
away, you do have a shot.  Exceptions to this rule are distances of 5,
10, 13 and 17.  (A review of the Pythagorean Theorem will show why
this is true.)  Hence, if the distance is 5, 10, or 13 (but not 17),
you may or may not have a direct shot.  Likewise, this set of rules
applies to the direction of the objective.

If you watch your distances before and after moving, you should be
able to tell where the Twonky is in relation to you, e.g., forward and
to the right, or backward and to the left.  Take the distance you are
from the Twonky, square it, say 2.23606^2 = 4.999998 approx. = 5.
Then find two integers that when squared and added together equal this
(2 and 1).  If the Twonky is forward and to the right, you now know
that he is either up 2, over 1, or up 1, over 2.

The thing that makes Twonky unique, is that it can be played on two
levels, one in which you play for fun, mobing haphazardly; or you can
play while figuring out exact positions, and calculating moves in
advance for a challenging (as well as fun) game.

Twonky was written by Mark Capella and first appeared in Creative
Computing, May/Jun 1977.
