TAXI!!

This is an absorbing and complex simulation game, in which you play
the part of a cab driver in a busy city.

When you run the program, you'll see the city shown as follows:

    B - BUS STATION
    P - PASSENGER
    R - RAILWAY STATION
    D - DESTINATION
    T - TAXI
    F - FUEL

       XXXXXXXXXXXX
       X @   @    X
       X @@@  R@@@X
       X     @  B X
       X@ @@ @ @@ X
       X@  @ @  @ X
       X@ @@ @ @@ X
       X  @T @ @@ X
       XF   @@    X
       X @@ @@ @@ X
       X  @     @ X
       XXXXXXXXXXXX

The "@" symbols represent houses, the "R" is a railway station, "B"
represents a bus station, "F" the place where you can refuel your cab,
and "T" (for "Taxi") is you.  After seeing the street plan on the
screen, press the Return key, and the game will begin.

Your passenger appears as a "P" on the map, and you move your cab
around by entering U(p), D(own), L(eft) or R(ight).  You have to get
to your passenger as quickly as possible, and take him or her to the
destination by the shortest possible route.  The destination ("D") is
shown on the map as soon as you pick the passenger up.  You have to
move your cab around to get to the passenger, find out where he or she
is going, and then move to the destination.

You use up a great deal of gas cruising around, picking up and setting
down passengers.  You can refuel at "F," and must pay $1.00 per
gallon.  Note that your score is the number of dollars you've earned
from passengers, so the money you spend on fuel is deducted from your
score.  (You can only refuel when you've got less than 100 gallons in
your tank.)

And so you cruise around, until you drop off your passenger.

Your fare at the end of a journey depends on how far you take the
passenger.  Note that your tip goes down more quickly than the fare
goes up, so you should always take the shortest route.

The game ends when you run out of gas.  Beware of simply ferrying
passengers from the railway station to the bus terminal, as this takes
up a lot of fuel, and they are both a long way from the gas station.
You use up more fuel going through the bus terminal or the station,
because of congestion, so you should avoid those locations if you can.

TAXI!! was written by Neal Cavalier-Smith.
