DOGFIGHT

  by W. K. Balthrop

Dogfight is a two-player game written in Extended BASIC.  Each player
has control of one aircraft -- a bi-plane.  You must out-maneuver your
opponent and shoot him down before he can clo the same to you.  If
both planes crash into each other, the score will not change.  The
first player to destroy 10 enemy aircraft wins the game.

Your plane is controlled with 4 directional keys.  Unlike most games,
the key pressed will not cause your plane to immediately move in that
particular direction.  For example, if your plane is traveling down
and to the right at a bearing of 135 degrees and you press "E" or the
up arrow, your plane will turn its nose up and first change its
heading to 90 degrees, then to 45 degrees, and finally to due North --
i.e., straight up.  This gives the plane a more realistic movement and
makes unrealistic, 180-degree hairpin turns impossible.

To make a 180-dcgree turn, you must first press a key indicating the
direction of turn.  For example, if you are traveling due East (left
to right) and want to make a 180-degree turn to go due West, you must
first press either "E" or "X" to indicate the upward or downward turn.
Pressing "S," the left directional key, will have no effect.  In a
similar way, the player using the right-hand side of the keyboard uses
I, J, K, and M to move the plane.  (If you have the overlay for the
Video Games Command Module, you might find it convenient to use.)

Pressing the "F" and "H" keys will fire the guns, but only one shot
can be fired at a time.  Each shot has a limited range and cannot be
carried over the edge of the screen to the opposite edge.

You canâ€™t terminate a bad shot; it must first go off screen.  The
limit of only one shot at a lime was placed in the program so that the
computer could make accurate coincidence checks with objects moving
fairly rapidly on the screen.

Four levels of difficulty make the game easy enough for beginners and
challenging enough to hold the interest of experts.  The higher the
level of difficulty, the faster the planes and shots will move.  The
option to fly a day or night mission will change the screen color to
either light blue or black.
