TREASURE HUNT

Have you ever dreamed of going in search of hidden treasure?  Of
journeying through wild and hostile countryside, living off the land
and sleeping out, until you reach the remote and forbidding land where
your glittering prize is hidden?  If so, this is the game for you.

You will be taken high up into the Rocky Mountains and given a map
which shows where the treasures you seek are hidden, and what they are
worth.  To reach them you must make your way along narrow twisting
paths -- one false step means certain death -- by using the following
keys.

    0  for one step upwards
    K  for one step to the left
    :  for one step to the right
    .  for one step downwards

You discover the treasures simply by treading on them.

But wait... it's not that easy.  You didn't really think it would be
that simple, did you?  The treasures you seek are very carefully
guarded by some extremely vicious and terrifying birds who will attack
you if you are not careful.  If they get you in their sights you will
be paralyzed with fear.  The only thing you can do to try and stop
them is to press the space bar.

If you still feel up to the challenge start your search in the lower
left hand corner of the map.  Collect as much treasure as you can and
take it away through the upper right hand exit.  This will give you
bonus points, and another chance to journey along the paths, picking
up treasure.  In fact you can make as many treasure-seeking trips as
you can get away with.  Unfortunately each time you go through you
disturb more of those appalling birds, who become increasingly
aggressive.

The risks are high, but so are the rewards, so gather up your courage
and off you go!
