COUNT THE SPOTS

Skill area: Mathematics 
Level: 1 
Equipment required: None 
Modification: No 

The Old Monopoly Dice 

All the big kids play Monopoly, but you can't get anybody to play it
with you.  Monopoly isn't easy, and Dad says you have to be able to
roll the dice before you can learn the rest of the game.

Rolling the dice isn't hard, unless a die rolls off the table and you
have to look for it in the carpet.  The hardest part is deciding what
the spots on the dice mean.  Each spot stands for the number 1, and
you add the number of spots on both dice to see how many squares you
can move ahead when your turn comes.  When you can count the numbers
on the dice, maybe the other kids will let you play Monopoly with
them.

How to Play 

Each game consists of ten rolls of the dice.  The computer will roll
the dice, and you count the number of spots.  When you think you have
the right number, type the number and then press the key that says
RETURN.  Don't spell the numbers out: type 10, not TEN.

YouH know when you get a right answer by the whooshing sound and the
colors flashing on the screen.  A wrong guess will cause the screen to
go black, and you'll hear a raspberry.

Scoring 

At the end of the game, the computer will tell how many times you were
right.  The highest score possible in one game is 10.  The computer
will also tell the highest score that you've made since you started
playing "Count the Spots" this time.  After a game, type the letter Y
to play again.  To quit, type N when the computer asks if you want to
play once more.
