[Note: This program has issues with a short ML routine that does not
appear to work properly on a late-model CoCo.  It has not been fully
tested.]

NO ESCAPE

Is There Any Escape from NO ESCAPE?

Now, from the world of outer space, comes NO ESCAPE.  where you try to
navigate through a meteor field that bars your way from the planet
Saturn.

You can never make it to the lamed ringed planet Saturn, actually.  It
just takes too long and there are far too many meteors between Mars
and Saturn.  They bar your way.  If you do manage to get there, you
end up in the middle of one of the dense rings of Saturn -- where
there is no space left at all.  Then, you will surely crash.

Jim Ebbert of Acesoft Software (1680 North Page Dr., Deltona, FL
32725) contributed NO ESCAPE for your pleasure.  It features some
faster animation than is available through pure BASIC since it
contains one small machine language subroutine.

To play NO ESCAPE, CLOAD and RUN the program.  After a brief pause,
the title will appear and scroll up the graphic screen.  When the
title clears, the game will start.

Here are some hints from Jim:

The object of the game is to maneuver your space ship around meteors
without crashing.  Use the right joystick to control movement.

When NO ESCAPE starts, your space ship will appear in the upper part
of your screen and blue meteors will come zooming at you.  If you
crash, your time will be primed on the high resolution screen.  After
you read your time, press the space bar, type in your name or
initials, and press ENTER.  The top five scores will be displayed and
the theme from Star Trek will play.  When you have finished reading
the high scores, press the space bar again and the game will restart.

As the game goes on, the size and number of meteors will increase as
you get close to the dense ring -- where there is no space left at
all.  In order to last as long as possible, you must keep several
options open in case your path is blocked off.  Jim says that it is
not always a good idea to stay too close to the edge of the screen,
since you cannot go from the right of the screen to the left and you
can become trapped by meteors without any avenue of escape.

Incidentally, Mr. Sulu, this isnâ€™t a shoot-em-up.  You can only
navigate, not blast the meteors.

Have fun.
