ROULETTE WHEEL

Roulette is one of the most ancient games of chance, although earlier
forms of this game and the wheel with which it was played were quite
different from those seen today.  In any event, this program will
simulate the roulette wheels of Las Vegas and Atlantic City and allow
you to try your luck without the possibility of losing any money (or
winning any either).  This program automatically "stakes" you the sum
of $1000, which you can bet any way you want as far as quantity is
concerned.  If you go broke, the computer has won; but if you're able
to build your $1000 stake into $10,000 or more, you have "broken the
bank" and beaten the machine.

In this version of roulette, you actually make four separate bets.
Here, we are concerned with the actual number which lies in the range
of to 36; the color of the number, which can be black or red; whether
the number is even or odd; and finally, whether it is high or low.  In
some versions of roulette, you may bet on any or all of these
conditions.  In this version, however, you must bet on them all.  In
other words, you are asked to choose the number on which the
fictitious roulette marker will land, followed by the color (black or
red).  Any number which is divisible by 3 is red; all others are
black.  You are then asked to select whether the number will be even
or odd.

Naturally, even numbers are evenly divisible by two; all others are
odd.  Finally, you bet on whether the number will be high or low.  Low
numbers constitute those from to 18, while the high range from 19 to
36.  Again, you must bet on all of these possibilities.

Here's how the payoff works.  Each of the four bets constitute a
possible win/loss situation.  If you guess the correct number, the
machine pays you 5 times the amount you bet.  If you don't guess the
correct number, you lose the amount of your bet.  If you select the
correct color, the machine pays you 3 times the amount of your bet.  A
loss here means you lose twice the amount of your bet.  If you guess
the odd/even sequence correctly, you win twice the amount of your bet,
or if you are wrong, you lose the amount of your bet.  Finally,
getting the high/low sequence right nets you the amount of your bet,
or if you don't guess right, loses you this same amount.

The most you can possibly win is 11 times your bet.  This will occur
only when you guess the correct number, color, odd/even, and high/low
sequences.  This is a billion to one shot.  Most of the time, you will
be correct on one or two and incorrect on others.  Sometimes, you will
win a little, while at other times, you will lose a little.  Often,
you'll end up neither winning nor losing any money.  This occurs when
you guess correctly at a few of the sequences and incorrectly at
others.  The combined wins and losses of a single spin may simply
cancel each other out.

Again, you are allotted $1000 when the game begins.  The computer will
keep track of the amount you bet on each spin, along with your wins
and losses.  You will be apprised of your financial status at the end
of each spin.  The computer automatically adds and subtracts your wins
and losses.  If you run out of money, the computer displays a message
which indicates your bankrupt status, and the game is ended.
Likewise, if you build your "pot" into $10,000 or more, a screen
message is printed indicating that you have beat the machine.

This program has many protective features built in.  When you are
asked to input a number between and 36, you must do so.  If you input
a number outside of this range or no number at all, the program
detects an erroneous input and will not move on until you have met the
input requirements.  This applies to the other three sequences within
the betting regimen as well.  Also, you cannot bet more money than you
have.  This program allows the machine to guard you as closely as the
"wheel manager" would at a casino.
