AVALANCHE

In this simulation, you are Mayor Glugenheimer, the leader of a Swiss
alpine village which lies directly in the path of avalanches which
launch themselves at the village with monotonous regularity.  The
game, like the other three in the book, forces you to make decisions
regarding the expenditure of strictly limited resources. On these
decisions hang the fate of your village.

You are (you hope) in office for 20 years.  Although it is more likely
than not that the village will survive from year to year without
suffering the ravages of an avalanche, the chances of an avalanche
increase each year.  The only resource under your control is money,
which can be used to build shelters within which your villagers can
huddle in comparative safety when an avalanche hits.

You have limited money (which is bearing a generous interest rate if
it is not spent on shelter).  The longer you hang on to the money, the
more you will have to spend on avalanche shelters.  However, the
longer you wait without buying shelter, the more likely it is that an
avalanche will occur, and many members of your village will be killed.
You must therefore determine what proportion of your money you will
keep on deposit, and what portion of it will be spent on shelter.  If
you have no shelter when an avalanche strikes, the village will be
wiped out.

As you can see, you are bearing a considerable amount of
responsibility.  If an avalanche does strike, and the computer
considers the loss of life totally unacceptable, the game will
terminate with the following statement:

    THE LOSS OF HUMAN LIFE WAS
    CATASTROPHIC...YOU HAVE
    BEEN FORCED TO STEP DOWN
    FROM THE OFFICE OF MAYOR

Here are a few "years" from the program in action:

        YEAR 1
	
    THE CHANCE OF AN AVALANCHE IS 19 TO 1
    THE VILLAGE HAS 2633 PEOPLE
    THE VILLAGE TREASURY HOLDS $ 12914 
    HOW MUCH WILL YOU SPEND ON SHELTER? 12000

        YEAR 2

    THE CHANCE OF AN AVALANCHE IS 18 TO 1
    THE VILLAGE HAS 2764 PEOPLE
    YOU HAVE 32400 SHELTER
    THE VILLAGE TREASURY HOLDS $ 1005
    HOW MUCH WILL YOU SPEND ON SHELTER? 834

        ...

    THE CHANCE OF AN AVALANCHE IS 4 TO 1
    THE VILLAGE HAS 5465 PEOPLE
    YOU HAVE 35199 SHELTER
    THE VILLAGE TREASURY HOLDS $ 278
    HOW MUCH WILL YOU SPEND ON SHELTER? 21
    ** AVALANCHE **
    ** AVALANCHE **
     ** AVALANCHE **
                  ** AVALANCHE **
                  ** AVALANCHE **
                   ** AVALANCHE **
                   ** AVALANCHE **

    3526 PEOPLE ARE SAFE...
    BUT 1939 PEOPLE WERE KILLED...
    THERE ARE 31729 CUBIC YARDS OF SHELTER LEFT

        YEAR 19

    THE CHANCE OF AN AVALANCHE IS 1 TO 1
    THE VILLAGE HAS 3581 PEOPLE
    YOU HAVE 29236 SHELTER
    THE VILLAGE TREASURY HOLDS $ 3
    THERE ARE 2392 VILLAGERS DEAD
    HOW MUCH WILL YOU SPEND ON SHELTER? 3
    ** AVALANCHE **
                  ** AVALANCHE **
                   ** AVALANCHE **
                   ** AVALANCHE **

    2924 PEOPLE ARE SAFE...
    BUT 657 PEOPLE WERE KILLED...
    THERE ARE 26320 CUBIC YARDS OF SHELTER LEFT

You can see that if an avalanche does strike, but not enough people
are killed to force you out of office, it becomes a little easier to
cope with future avalanches because you have less people who you must
shelter.  However, the villagers waste no time in adding to their
numbers (there is little to do on winter nights except huddle under
the bedclothes and listen for the warning rumble of an impending
avalanche, so the gradual population increase is not hard to
understand).

You'll be rewarded with a statement like the following if you survive
20 years in office:

    WELL DONE, MAYOR GLUGENHEIMER

    YOU MANAGED TO SURVIVE 20 YEARS
    IN OFFICE, AND END YOUR TERM WITH:

        $ 0 IN THE TREASURY
        3070 PEOPLE SURVIVING
        26320 CUBIC YARDS OF SHELTER

    YOUR MAYORAL RATING IS 54202

Your final "mayoral rating" (see line 300) is related to the amount of
money you still have left in the treasury, the number of surviving
villagers, and shelter on hand.  This total is offset by the number of
people who have been killed in avalanche falls during your term of
office.
