ELEMENTS

  But, What Did I Get Wrong?
  by Steve Blyn 

You've got this great educational game going on your computer.  It
asks the child some questions in a particular category and everything
appears fine.  Let's check -- the questions are coming up randomly.
They are not repeating.  You have appropriate reinforcers.  Your
counters and scorers are giving a correct final tally or score.  What
more could any kid want?

He may very well want to know which questions he got wrong.  Many
children cannot remember which questions they got right or wrong or
maybe even which questions were asked in the first place.  Sometimes
children (and adults, too) get so caught up in the excitement of the
program that they forget the questions and answers they have already
gone through.

It's a good idea, often, to let the computer keep track of the
incorrect answers and their accompanying questions.  This is a good
opportunity for the adult and child, or the child alone, to go over
the incorrect answers and see where he went wrong.  We don't want the
child to merely keep playing the game until he memorizes all of the
answers.  We always hope for true understanding of the correct answer.
A quick review of the wrong responses before proceeding to the next
set of questions also acts as an extra incentive for the child to pay
close attention to his answers.

Here is a short program to review the symbols forsome of the most
important of the chemical elements.  The point of this program is that
it demonstrates one easy way to use the computer to keep track of
incorrect responses.  If the child makes any mistakes, they are
immediately saved by the program by the small array set up at lines
270-290.  They are printed out at the end of each round by line 330.

This program will work on any of the CoCo models.  The amount of data
that you enter can be as large or as small as your needs and your
computer's memory will allow. Be careful to have the "L" value on line
50 agree with the total number of your DATA pairs.  Twenty-five
chemical elements were used in our program merely as an example for
you to key in.

This topic may or may not be suitable for your child.  Feel free to
enter any data that pertains to what he is currently studying that he
wishes to review.  If he is having difficulty, stay with him and go
over the incorrect responses as they appear on the screen.  As he
gains confidence, let him work on his own. When he has mastered the
set of questions, enter new data in the same subject area for
additional review.

(Mr. Blyn, who teaches both exceptional and gifted children, holds two
Master's degrees in the field of education and has won an award for
the design of a computer program to aid handicapped children.  He and
his wife, Cheryl, own Computer Island.)
