BEEPEROO

Design Programs to Help Children Learn

(Mr. Blyn, who teaches both exceptional and gifted children, holds two
Master's degrees in the field of education and has won an award for
the design of a computer program to aid handicapped children.  He and
his wife, Cheryl, own Computer Island.)

There is much discussion and confusion on exactly how children learn.
Learning theory is not nearly so exact as is computer theory.  It is
generally agreed, however, that different individuals have different
styles and modes of learning.

Some children learn best by viewing the material, others by hearing
it, and still others by physically manipulating it.  This is akin to
the senses of sight, hearing and touch.

The procedure holds true into adulthood.  Many of us feel most
comfortable when we see a computer printout of a certain program.
Others cringe at this and are best off when they hear someone talking
about the program.  And yet others are most at ease when they are left
alone to manipulate and decipher the program by themselves at the
keyboard.

Research has shown that all children have a preferred mode of
learning.  Teaching should be geared to the strongest mode that the
child uses.  He will then be geared to reap the greatest amount of
learning.

There are children, without physical impairments, who will learn
almost nothing if their particular mode of learning is not used.  This
is the reason that some beautifully executed programs are unable to
teach many children: The particular gimmick the programmer used may be
performing well, but it may not be tuned to the way some children must
approach learning.  A variety of teaching modes is the strongest
approach one can use without knowing each individuals' strengths and
weaknesses.

When we design educational programs for children, we should keep in
mind the diversity of teaming styles of the ultimate users of our
programs.

Fortunately, the Color Computer permits us to reach children through
several modes.  The wonderful high and low resolution graphics, the
powerful sound and play commands, the keyboard and, of course, the
colors, offer programmers many avenues.  It would be best if each
program incorporated as many of these features as possible.

The following program, BEEPEROO, is a simple one which can be used to
reinforce the concept of simple addition of three digit numbers.  In
keeping with the general concepts outlined above, this skill is
approached from several directions to reach the largest number of
users of the program.

Children are able to view the example in both vertical and hphzonal
format.  The user inputs the answer and it appears in both formats.
INPUT, rather than INKEY, is used to give the child a chance io change
his answer before pressing ENTER.  If an incorrect answer is given, it
is changed to the correct answer in the vertical format only.  This
gives the user the opportunity to compare the answers and see his
mistake.

To assure proper alignment of the answers in the vertical 
format, the answers arc checked to sec whether they are a 
single or a two-digit number and the cursor is adjusted 
accordingly. Accidental answers of more than two digits are 
prevented in this program. 

The user may either do the example mentally, or listen and count the
sounds, look at and count the pictures, or do the example on a
separate sheet of paper and then put in the answer.  The child may,
thus, use any mode with which he is most comfortable to do this type
of example.  He may also experiment with the other modes to see which
type is most effective for him.

The program is purposely written to fit the 4K standard BASIC computer
so that all readers may use it Feel free to use and modify this
program to suit your needs and computer size.  Some suggestions might
be to try substituting PLAY commands for SOUND, using POKE commands
rather than SET and creation of high resolution graphics as a reward
for correct answers.
