HANGMAN

  Hang Around, You'll Enjoy This
  by Douglas C. L'Hommedieu 


Though capital punishment might seem a severe penalty for failure to
ascertain a certain quantity of deliberately withheld information,
millions of otherwise normal folks seem to be dying to put their lives
on the line in just such a quest.  In fact, striving to satisfy such
sadistic demands has long been a favorite pasttime.

Now, CoCo has joined the ranks of those diabolical inquisitors with
numerous variations of this heartless scheme we all know
affectionately as "Hangman."

In this particular version. Hangman has the capability of accepting
ten-letter words and allowing nine wrong guesses before being hanged.
It contains the following options: One or two people can play;
duplicate letters can be displayed when guessed; the program can
display the wrong guesses.

With the first option, two friends can take turns guessing each
other's words, or the computer will randomly generate words from its
122-word vocabulary.  With the second, you can either be forced to
guess each letter, or the computer will identify duplicates.  For
example, one way the computer would identify only one "m" in swimmer,
and in the other, both would be identified.  With the third option,
you can have your wrong guesses displayed, or the computer will keep
them a secret.

The program's vocabulary can easily be changed by modifying the words
in lines 1990-2060.  If you decrease or increase the number of words,
lines 130 and 530 will need to be changed correspondingly.

No ENTERs are needed except to terminate a word being input.  All
other responses are one letter responses satisfied by INKEY$.

In a Y/N/C decision, Y is for yes, N is for no, and C is for change.
Change takes you back to the beginning of the program, and all options
will again be available.

Now, type this one in and RUN.  Having fun?  Well, I'll be hanged.
