TIC-TAC-TOE

The game of tic-tac-toe has been enjoyed for hundreds upon hundreds of
years, and in recent times, it has been committed to the microcomputer
using hundreds and hundreds of different programs.  The version of
tic-tac-toe shown here can certainly be classified as low level, since
you don't actually play the computer, but rather, another human
player.  This program allows the TI-99/4A computer and its monitor
screen to serve in place of paper and pencil, which would normally be
used to implement the mechanical version of this ancient game.

When the program is run, the monitor screen will display the dual
Crosshatch that represents the game board.  Each of the nine squares
will be identified by a number of from 1 to 9.  In order to fill in a
square, all you need do is hit the numbers key that corresponds to the
block you wish to occupy.  In this game, X always has the first move.

While relatively simple in nature, this program has several built-in
protection features that greatly eliminate the chance of input errors
through accidental pressing of erroneous keys.  Once a square has been
filled in, it cannot be filled in again by another player.  The Xs and
Os which make up the moves of the two players are always handled on an
alternating basis.  In other words, the first player to input a number
will cause an X to appear in the appropriate box on the screen.  The
next number that is entered will cause an to be displayed, followed by
another X for the next number.

As is the case with most tic-tac-toe games run on a computer, a win
does not cause a solid line to be drawn through the series of boxes
which constitute that win.  This can be done, but at the expense of
many more program lines.  As a matter of fact, this highly simple
program does not even register a win in its present form.  This could
also be accomplished by adding a win detect subroutine.  However, the
idea of this game is to allow two players to enjoy the game of
tic-tac-toe without the use of paper and pencil.

Realistically speaking, tic-tac-toe is a game for children, since two
adults will almost always play to a tie.  There just aren't as many
variables as there are in chess or checkers, so the game quickly
becomes boring.  However, children can delight in this game for hours
on end and gain experience with a microcomputer as well.
