(From Color Computer Magazine, May 1983.)

  Shields up, phasers locked on, fire phasers.  Space Trek combines
  the excitements of arcade, adventure, and simulation games into an
  unequaled galactic experience.

  Program by Jake Commander
  Article by Kerry Leichtman

There I was, sitting with a bucket of popcorn, at the movie theater.
The lights dimmed, the music began, and the audience quieted.  Star
Trek II had just begun.

Seconds into the opening reel, the crew of the Enterprise was battling
Klingon attackers.  The Enterprise was getting badly hit.  Lights
inside the greatest Federation starship were flashing danger messages
and damage reports.  Sirens and bells buzzed and clanged.  I never
felt so helpless.  It took all the restraint I could muster to keep
from yellow, "Get those shields up!"  And, "Phasers, all you can give
her Mr. Scott!"  Or, as a last resort, "Warp drive Mr. Sulu.  Get us
out of here!"

It may seem that my barely controlled impulse to scream commands at
the crew of the endangered Enterprise were those of an avid Trekkie
who, after waiting so long for the series' continuation, was afraid
the starship Enterprise would get trashed in the first five minutes of
the film.  But that wasn't the case.  I am not merely a Trekkie, but
an experienced Starship Commander.

Yes, it's true.  Not many people know this as modesty keeps me from
attending formal functions in Federation habit.  I did flight training
on a TRS-80 Model I, and later advanced to Model III flight.  Years of
practice has made me ready for the ultimate in space adventure, Color
Computer Space Trek.

Setting the Scene

You are on the ship's bridge, sitting in the Captain's control chair.
In front of you are your scan and message screens.  Your control
panel, a silver grey or bright white keyboard instrument, connects you
to all the ship's functions.

The current stardate, your position in the galaxy, and photon torpedo
stockpile information is listed to the left of your scan screen.  You
begin each mission with 10 photon torpedoes.

To the right of your scan screen is a color bar.  During calm moment
the bar is green.  When you enter a quadrant containing Klingons, the
bar flashes red as the call to battle stations is sounded.  Under the
bar are readings for fuel supply and power to shields, followed by
your current command choice.  You begin the mission with 5000 units of
power.

To start, Starfleet command displays your orders on the message screen
(see Photo 1).  The number of Klingons and starbases will vary from
mission to mission, but you will always have 32 stardates to rid the
galaxy of Klingons.

There are two types of commands you can issuee from the helm: direct
or via your ship's onboard computer.  They are listed in Tables 1 and
2, respectively.

    Table 1: Direct Commands

    Command Function
      1  Set Course
      2  Local Scanner
      3  Remote Scanner
      4  Fire Phasers
      5  Photon Torpedo
      6  Shield Control
      7  Damage Report
      8  Onboard Computer

    Table 2: Computer Commands

    Command Function
      1  Computer Guidance
      2  Status Report
      3  Torpedo Data
      4  Computer Course
      5  Guided Torpedo
      6  Mission Record

The galaxy is divided into an eight by eight grid, totaling 64
quadrants (see Figure 1).  Each quadrant in divide into 64 sectors
using an identical eight by eight grid, as in Figure 2.  To set your
ships course and aim photon torpedos use the compass in Figure 3.
Commands are not acted upon until you press Enter.  Let's run through
all of your command options by going on mission.

    Figure 3

     8  1  2
      \ | /
    7 --+-- 3
      / | \
     6  5  4

Battle Stations

We receive order from Starfleet Command and are ready for combat.  Our
scan screen is in Local Scanner mode giving us a view of the quadrant
we are in.  We begin our test mission in Quadrant 4,2.  Starfleet
Command reports 32 Klingons in the galaxy and three starbases.  We
have 32 stardates to complete our mission.

The ship's whistle sounds to signal a message from Damage Control.
The message board reads, "Damage Control Report: Remote Scanner --
Upgraded."  A harmless message, but nice to know.  There are no
Klingons in our quadrant so we press Command 3 for a Remote Scan.
Remember, commands are not activate until you press Enter.

The Remote Scan in Figure 4 shows that the quadrants immediately
surrounding us are full of Klingons.  Our quadrant is shown in the
center of the scan.  All adjacent quadrants are also shown.  The
number in the ones column represents stgars.  The tens column is for
starbases, and the hundreds column is Klingons.  Immediately above us,
in Quadrant 4,1 the scan shows 101.  This means, reading right to
left, that the quadrant has one star, no starbases and one Klingon.
Now look at the quadrant below us.  There are seven stars, and two
Klingons.  Time then for a little warp travel.

    Figure 4

       1  | 105 |  4
    ------+-----+------
      105 |  2  |  8
    ------+-----+------
      103 | 207 | 101

Press Command 1 and Enter.  Set Course appears on our command line
under the shield and fuel gauges.  That reminds me, we'd better
power-up the shields.  To get out of Set Course, enter zero at the
Course Direction prompt.  Then press Command 6 for Shield Control.
250 units is usually a safe amount for inter-galactic Klington
cruising, so enter the amount and prepare yourself for warp drive.

Quadrant 4,2 is located at the middle of the X axis and one quadrant
down on the Y axis on the eight by eight galaxy grid.  We'll travel
downward a bit.  Now enter 1 for Set Course.  At the course number
prompt we'll enter 5.  Refer to your compass in Figure 3.  We could
have entered a coordinate using two decimal places, such as 5.25.
That would take us down and left.  You have the same flexibility with
photon torpedoes.  Anyway, after entering your direction (5), you will
be asked by your helmsman, the computer, what warp factor.  We'll
enter a warp factor of 1 to get at the two Klingons below in Quadrant
4,3.

One warp factor is equal to one quadrant.  Traveling at warp factor 1
moves us one quadrant in the desired direction, in this case down to
Quadrant 4,3.

Battle stations!  Battle stations!  The color bar flashes red, the
siren calls the crew to readiness.  On the screen you see your ship
and two Klingon cruisers.  "Raise shields to 400," you shout.  (Press
6 and Enter, type 400 and Enter.)  "Ready torpedoes!"  (Press 5 and
Enter.)

Determining torpedo direction takes practice.  If your ship is in the
middle of the screen, or quadrant, and the Klingon was to your
immediate right, aim your torpedo in direction 3.  You might want to
make a copy of the compass in Figure 4 and lean it against your video
for quick reference.  Klingons won't wait for you to thumb through the
magazine.  If, on the other hand, the Klingon was to your right and
above you a bit, you might have to enter 2.33.  If you miss by just a
hair under the Klingon, 2.3 might do the trick.

Sound complicated?  Novice starship commanders (and lazy older
commanders) can call on the onboard computer for assistance.  Choose
Command 8 and press Enter.  Your command line will ask which computer
option you want.  Chooser 3 for Torpedo Data.  The computer will find
the Kingon ship and display its coordinates on the message screen.
Now choose option 5, Guided Torpedo, and the vomputer will fire the
torpedo at the Klingon.  You cannot, however, blast your way through a
star.  If your torpedo passes too close it will be captured by the
star's field of gravity.  When this happens you'll have to manuever
your way to a clearer path of fire.

Of course you could fire your phasers.  They'll do their damage no
matter how many stars are between you and the Klingons.  But the
farther away the enemy ship, the more power units you need to fire at
them.  Which brings us to fuel conservation.

Even Starships Run Out of Gas

The following all require fuel usage: shields, space travel, and
phasers.  Your 5000 unit fuel supply will rapidly dissipate unless you
plan your use of it in a manner befitting a Starship Commander.
Photon torpedoes, since they require no fuel use, are more economical,
and, if you score a direct hit, more deadly.  But your photo supply is
limited to 10 torpedoes.  So what's a commander to do?  Locate a
starbase of course.

STarbases are like a safe area in a game of tag.  You'll have at least
one starbase located somewhere in the galaxy.  Once you've found a
starbase, you can refuel as many times as you need.  Each time you
dock with a starbase your fuel is replenished to 5000 units, and you
are given a new stockpile of 10 photon torpedoes.  To dock, maneuver
your starship along either side of the starbase.

During the course of your travels around the galaxy, the ship's
whistle will sound and a message from Damage Control will appear on
your message screen.  Pay attention to the messages.  Sometimes they
will just inform you that the computer is out, or your Local Scanner
isn't functioning.  Although the program chooses these messages at
random, they have a tendency to occur when you least need additional
worries.

Here's a hopeless scenario: You're low on fuel, out of torpedoes, and
have just entered a quadrant with three Klingons.  Just as you enter
the combat area you lose warp drive ability.  Not being able to travel
more than two sectors at a time you have no choice but to fire phasers
(which will use too much fuel).  Against three Klingons you'll need
lots of power on your shields.  But the more you have on your shields
the more fuel you'll use.  To make matters worse you still haven't
located a starbase, so even if you do somehow escape the
Klingon-crammed quadrant, you'll use up all the fuel you were planning
to use searching for a starbase.  The thing to do here, is either try
to exit the sector before your shields buckle under, or go down with
all phasers blazing.

Besides being the nasties of the universe, Klingons have the bad habit
of cloaking.  A cloaking Klingon is an invisible Klingon.  Torpedoes
are useless when Klingons are cloaking.  Phasers are the only weapon
you can use against them.  Your message board will let you know when
you've entered a quadrant where Klingon are cloaking.

Computer Scratch Pad

Onboard computer option 6, Mission Record, is possibly the most
helpful function available to you.  It keeps a cumulative record of
your Remote Scanner screens.  All 64 quadrants are stuffed onto the
screen.  Each quadrant is represented by a two-digit number.  The ones
column is for stars, and the tens for Klingons.  A reverse character
signifies a starbase.

Refer to this screen often.  It will tell you where you've been, which
will prevent you from going there again.  After all, the idea of this
is to boldly go where no man has gone before.

Happy trekking.
