ASTEROID BLAST

Skill area: Coordination
Level: 2, 3, 4
Equipment required: Joystick handy, but not essential
Modification: No

Asteroid Cluster

You are commander of Space Station Omega, but your command and life
are in jeopardy.  A cluster of asteroids is on the way.  As the
asteroids surround the space station, the future of hundreds of people
is in your hands.

How to Play

The computer will fire missiles from the left edge of the screen.  You
can cause each missile to climb or dive by using the joystick or the
keyboard.  If you use the keyboard, press W or f5 to cause the
missiles to climb; press X or f7 to cause the missiles to dive.  The
object of the game is to clear all the asteroids with the missiles,
saving your space station from destruction.  Be careful not to hit
your space station with a missile.

Control your game by choosing three options:

    A. The number of asteroids in the asteroid cluster;
    B. The speed of your missiles;
    C. The number of warheads each missile can fire.

The computer will ask how many asteroids you want.  Type a number from
10 to 200 and press the RETURN key.  Next, you'll be asked how fast
you want the missiles to go; press a number from 1 to 9, followed by
the RETURN key, to indicate missile speed -- 1 is the fastest, and 9
is the slowest missile speed.  Third, youll be asked how many shots
you want each missUe to be capable of firing.  Press 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5,
and then the RETURN key.

The computer fires each missile, one by one.  You control each
missile's path by moving it up or down to hit the asteroids and avoid
the space station.

Scoring

At the end of a game, the computer will tell you how many asteroids
you destroyed, together with how many missiles it took.  You will then
be given a rank, ranging from private all the way to 4-star general.
To increase your rank, you may want to choose a higher number of
asteroids, a faster missile speed, and only one or two warheads per
missile.
