MATHEMATICAL PROGRESSION

Mathematical Progression is an arithmetic game that can be enjoyed by
persons of all ages.  While the program shown here may be used as is,
it is presented in order to give the reader a program format and an
idea for writing his own program.

This program contains three different mathematical formulas held
within for-next loops.  The loops begin at lines 140, 210, and 280,
respectively.  Each of these loops causes a series of numbers to be
displayed on the screen.  It is the player's responsibility to
determine the relationship of these numbers and then to input the next
number that would logically follow in the string.  For example, if the
computer displayed 1 2 3 4 5 6, the next logical number would
obviously be 7, since the numbers are pressing upward in steps of 1.
Depending on the mathematical formula used to determine the numbers,
the program's difficulty factor can be high or low.

You can custom-tailor this program by inserting as many new problems
and for-next loops as you want.  This is the area of the program
currently filled by the statements in lines 140 through 330.  At the
end of each problem sequence, there is a GOSUB to the subroutine that
allows you to input an answer and also keeps score.  At the end of the
program, the number of attempts you made to answer the problems and
the number of wrong answers is displayed.  This is a basic program
that can be lengthened tremendously to be developed into an extremely
complex and educational mathematics drill.
