PEPPERONI, PLEASE!

For Parents and Teachers...

This game will help children practice their division and fractions.

The computer draws a pizza pie on the TV screen.  It divides the pie
into anywhere from two to eight slices.  Then it draws a random number
of people on the screen.  For example, the computer might ask: If
there are three people trying to eat six slices of pizza, how many
slices does each person get?

When the child has correctly answered the question (or answers the
question incorrectly three times in a row), the computer prints the
correct answer (2 slices) and displays, as a fraction, the amount of
the whole pizza each person gets (2/6 or 1/3).

For Kids...

Imagine that one night you and a bunch of your friends go to a pizza
restaurant.  You order the biggest pizza, but there are a lot of
people, and everyone is starved.

The pizza arrives, and people attack it.  But no one has figured out
how much pizza each person should get.  Everyone tries to grab as many
slices of pizza as they can reach.  Fights break out.  People have
pieces sticking out of their ears, their pockets, and their socks.
The pizza is gone, and nobody got more than a couple of bites.

You go home and take a long shower.  You use lots of soap and hot
water to try to scrub the mozzarella cheese and mushrooms out of your
hair.

Now imagine that you plan to go with these same friends to a pizza
restaurant again tonight.  This time you plan to be prepared.  You sit
down at your computer and RUN your new game, Pepperoni, Please!

The game draws a picture of a pizza on the TV screen.  The pizza has
between two and eight slices.  Then the game draws anywhere from one
to eight people on the screen.  The game asks: "HOW MANY SLICES PER
PERSON?" and "HOW MANY SLICES IN THE WHOLE PIZZA?"

You spend an hour playing the game.  Now you're ready to go to the
restaurant with your friends.  No matter how many people go, and no
matter how many slices of pizza there are, you will know how much
pizza to give each person.

Background...

The Pepperoni, Please! game was designed by Howard Boggess, a student
at Patrick Henry High School in Roanoke, Virginia.

Howard had been using computers for five years.  In 1978 his dad
bought him an INTERACT computer.  Although the computer cost $500, it
was primitive compared to today's computers.  It didn't understand
decimal numbers or strings (letters and words).  Still, for Howard, it
was an excellent learning tool.

Howard began working on this game, Pepperoni, Please!, two weeks
before it was due.  But he was plagued with bad luck.  He writes: "I
took a computer home over a weekend, with only four days left to
finish.  I had finished six out of seven possible pizzas by Sunday
morning at 3 AM.  I was watching the snow fall outside my bedroom
window and putting the finishing touch on the seventh pizza.  That's
when all the power went out and I lost everything!"

Howard worked all day Sunday on his program.  He went to school
Monday, but he got out of some of his classes to continue working on
the program.  He continues: "The program was due on Tuesday.  Monday
night I took the computer home and pieced together the whole program
in three hours, eating pizza the whole time.  After the program was
finished I thought I'd be too sick to eat pizza ever again, but that's
what I had for dinner that night."
