HORSE RACING

  The Horses are Nearing the Starting Gate...

Now that springtime has gotten a good foothold around and about, the
thoughts of some young innocents have turned to that traditional
befuddler of mind and body chemistry called love.  But the stars in
the eyes of many another older (but not wiser) head are there in
anticipation of the season's parimutuel betting which will be taking
place on the grounds of this nation's many venerable ovals.

Particularly, on the first Saturday of May, the attention of
sporting-minded folk around the world will be focused on a patch of
turf in the heart of Louisville, which for over a century has hosted
the world’s premier horse race, the ultimate championship for
three-year-old thoroughbreds, the Kentucky Derby.

The track, of course, is Churchill Downs.  And the excitement that
spring day will be shared on the grounds by a community of over
150,000 novices, pros, horsemen, innocents and touts -- all reaching
for the gold ring: that winning parimutuel ticket on the big one.

Whether or not you are so fortunate as to be at "the Track" that day,
we have here a little racing program in honor of the Kentucky Derby
with which you might want to test your luck.  Rob Becker, of
Smithtown, New York, didn't write this program specifically for the
Derby, but at this time in Kentucky when folks have just polished up
their silver julep cups and dusted off their worn copies of Irvin S.
Cobb's recipe for muddled mint and Bourbon, it's the only race that
comes to mind.

The program accepts win, place and show betting, and allows you to
make your pick from an eight-horse field.  The day’s 'card' contains
10 races, and you may bet any amount up to your total holdings on any
race.  You are spotted $100 at post time.

The program is self-prompting, but... pssst... before you go
trackside, let me give you a tip: play the filly -- she’ll run her
heart out.
