ELEMENT MAN

Skill area: Science
Level: 4
Equipment required: None
Modification: Yes

The Formidable Element Man

They say everything in the world is made up of elements.  The Element
Man is no exception.  Even though he's made of the same stuff as you
and I, the Element Man is not very nice.  He's not exactly the kind of
guy you'd invite to a party.

Two things are true about the Element Man: He knows where he's not
wanted; and he'll do his best to be there anyway.  But if you know
your elements, you can keep him off jraxir doorstep.

How to Play

The computer will pick the name of a chemical element, tell how many
letters it contains, its atomic number and its symbol.  You must guess
the element by selecting one letter at a time.  If you pick more than
11 incorrect letters, the Element Man will follow you around for the
rest of the week.

After you type a letter and press RETURN, one of two things will
happen.  If the letter belongs in the name of this particular element,
it will appear in its proper place in the word.  But, if the letter
does not belong in the word, the computer will buzz, the screen will
temporarily go black, the letter will appear on the bottom of the
screen, and a piece of the Element Man will appear.  If you guess 11
incorrect letters, the Element Man is yours to keep.

A list of the chemical elements appears below.  Familiarize yourself
with the names, but try not to use the list when you're playing
"Element Man."

    actinium     berkelium     carbon          dysprosium
    aluminum     beryllium     cerium          einsteinium
    americium    bismuth       cesium          erbium
    antimony     boron         chlorine        europium
    argon        bromine       chromium        fermium
    arsenic      cadmium       cobalt          fluorine
    astatine     calcium       copper          francium
    barium       californium   curium          gadolinium
    gallium      manganese     potassium       tantalum
    germanium    mendelevium   praseodynmium   technetium
    gold         mercury       promethium      tellurium
    hafnium      molybdenum    protactinium    terbium
    helium       neodymium     radium          thallium
    holmium      neon          radon           thorium
    hydrogen     neptunium     rhenium         thulium
    indium       nickel        rhodium         tin
    iodine       niobium       rubidium        titanium
    iridium      nitrogen      ruthenium       tungsten
    iron         nobelium      samarium        uranium
    krypton      osmium        scandium        vanadium
    lanthanum    oxygen        selenium        xenon
    lawrencium   palladium     silicon         ytterbium
    lead         phosphorus    silver          yttrium
    lithium      platinum      sodium          zinc
    lutetium     plutonium     strontium       zirconium
    magnesium    polonium      sulfur

Scoring 

No point score is given in Element Man.  At the end of each round, the
computer will ask if you want to try another element.  Type Y for Yes
or N for No.  If you indicate you do not want to play again, the
computer will tell you how many elements were guessed correctly and
how many you missed since you began playing this session of Element
Man.
