WARLOCKâ€™S CASTLE

At the beginning of this game you find yourself standing on the
doorstep of a castle occupied by an evil warlock.  The warlock has
cast a spell over the surrounding countryside and, being a gallant
hero, your task is to enter the castle and track down the warlock.
The only way to break the spell and to free the country is to kill the
warlock with a magic arrow fired from your trusty bow.  The warlock is
very powerful and has surrounded himself with a bodyguard of trolls,
so the task will not be easy to complete.

Being a magic castle, it has no doors.  The magic doorstep will
transport you inside the castle and deposit you in a room chosen at
random.  You will then be told which rooms you can get to from your
present position.  By shouting out a room number at the top of your
voice (or by entering the number into your computer), you will be
carried off to that room.  You will also be warned if the warlock or
his bodyguard are nearby.

If you enter the room the warlock is in you will suffer a fate worse
than death.  To kill the warlock you have to fire a magic arrow
through a wall from one room to another.  To do this put a minus sign
in front of the room number when you enter it.  For instance -32.  You
start the game with three arrows so use them wisely.  However you may
be lucky enough to find an arrow or two as you wander around the
castle.

The computer will tell you when you are getting close to the warlock
and his trolls.  It will also tell you which rooms you can enter.
Some rooms contain magic spells.  These rooms will immediately send
you off somewhere else.

[Note: This is clearly a derivative of "Hunt the Wumpus", several
versions of which are in the collection.]
