[This game is Part 1 of 4 of The Sorcerer's Puzzles V.  See "Alley
Oops!", "Questigian Torture", and "Circles and Discs" for Parts 2, 3,
and 4.]

(From Color Computer Magazine, February 1984.)

SORCERER'S PUZZLES V

  Enjoy this set of puzzles or -- or -- or else!

  by Richard Ramella

Sunflower hauled Poke to the top of a rocky escarpment on a sheer line
of cliffs high in the blue mountains west of the castle.  "Now that
we've overcome the Questigians' traps, we should have no trouble
finding the Sorcerer," she said.

"We'll rescue him from those kidnappers for sure," said Poke.  "I'm
just beginning to get strong."

"Shh, listen!" Sunflower said.  They fell silent.  It first seemed to
be the wind, but with concentration they made out the unmistakable
sounds of a hurdy-gurdy.  It lay ahead, across a field of sneezewort
and beyond a line of wizened trees.

They crept across a mossy fen, and through the thickets saw
extravagant colors and sweeping movement.  "Maybe they're getting
ready for a torture ceremony," Poke whispered.

"Hello," came a voice.

"Arghh!" yelled Poke.

"Take it easy, lad," said Sorcerer Goldberg, who had appeared behind
them as if, well, as if by magic.

"You're free!" said Sunflower.  "Let's run before they come after
us. "

The Sorcerer only smiled.

"Bob said you'd been kidnapped," Poke said.  (Bob is the Sorcerer's
twisted major-domo.)

The Sorcerer explained, "The Questigians think they've kidnapped me,
but it's hardly the case.  Bob fantasizes a lot; he'd like to have the
castle to himself. "

"Then what happened?" Sunflower asked.

"Every year the Questigians come after me, and I let them take me
away.  You see, this is the season of the Questigian Quiz.  Carnival
time."

"That sounds like fun!" Poke said. 

"I knew I could depend on Bob to fill your ears with nonsense to get
you up here for the carnival," the Sorcerer chuckled.

When it was explained to the boy and the girl that Questigians were
harmless, though seemingly bellicose in nature, Poke and Sunflower
strode onto the carnival rounds without fear.  "They're just like
every little bad child in the world," said the Sorcerer, "all they
want is attention and love."

Their snouts quivering with interest, a score of the squat Questigians
crowded around the humans.

"If you don't play my game Bone Race," said one, "I'll punch you in
the breadbasket!"

"Me!" yelled another. "I'll turn your ears upside down if you don't
try Alley Oops! Immediately!"

"I'll... I'll..." tried another.  "Anyway, my game's Questigian
Torture."

"Torture can be fun," said a fourth Questigian, "but you'll really
like Circles and Discs or I'll make your nose two feet long and tie it
in a granny knot."

"We're severely frightened," said the Sorcerer, and this produced an
excited murmur of content among the short creatures.  "We'll play all
the games in absolute mortal fear for our very lives."

The Questigians cheered.

"Come on," said the Sorcerer, striding toward the colorful tents
housing games of skill.  "The puzzles are quite clever."

BONE RACE

The "bone" of the title (Color Basic 4K) refers to dice.  A playing
board of 15 cells is drawn and an orange player piece is placed in the
first cell.  The first object is to reach the last or next to last
cell by tapping the letter F for forward, which produces dice rolls
and automatic moves.  If the total of the two dice takes the player
past the last cell, the Questigian wins the round.  Three times during
a round, the player may move backward as many spaces as desired,
though of course not past the first cell.  The ultimate object is to
find the strategy that should produce more winning than losing rounds.
