THE VIPER

  by Dave and Casey Gardner
  64 Version by Charles Brannon

"The Viper" is a fast-action game with 60 difficulty levels.  A
joystick is required.

The Viper is a fast, furious, hungry snake.  It races about, devouring
its favorite food -- asterisks!  And the more it eats, the bigger it
gets.  Since snakes have a hard time growing wider, the Viper simply
gets longer.  Since the Viper has such sharp, venomous teeth, it must
not in its haste accidentally run into its own lengthening body.  To
make things especially interesting, the Viper must maneuver through a
maze with electric walls.  One false move means certain doom.

With a joystick you can experience the perils of the Viper.  The
program is easy to set up and play.  Just follow the screen
instructions.  Maneuver the Viper with a joystick plugged into port
one.

You can choose from various difficulty levels to control the Viper's
speed.  You also select one of three courses -- no maze, the easy
maze, or the hard maze.  Your score is the number of those delicious
asterisks eaten multiplied by the skill level you selected, so the
harder the game, the more possible points.  You get twice as many
points for the easy maze, and five times as many for the hard maze.

A Word to Programmers 

In order to get the game to run fast enough, the entire main loop of
the program was written in machine language.  The resulting speed was
so fast that delay loops had to be inserted just to slow it down to a
barely playable level.  If you're brave enough, try level 20 -- you'll
never be able to play it.  If anyone can score any points on level 20
with the hard maze, it will be truly miraculous.

Another feature is the word VIPER that moves about on the title
screen.  No, it's not high-resolution graphics, and it's not made of
sprites, but rather from simple character graphics found on the
keyboard.  The movement works with programmable INSerts and DELetes.
Again, look it over. You may be able to use the technique for
animation in your next game.
