REVERSI

This game is based on an old board game very popular in the latter
half of the last century.

It is played on an eight by eight checkerboard.  The game begins with
the centre four locations of the board being occupied with two of your
playing pieces (the open circles) and two of the computer's playing
pieces (the crosses).  Each player takes a turn, placing a new playing
piece on the board adjacent to an opponent's piece so that one or more
of the opponent's pieces lie between two of your pieces.  If this is
not done it is considered to be an illegal move and the computer will
ignore it.  The opponent’s pieces trapped between your pieces remain
on the board but become your pieces.

The game ends when all the board locations are filled or when neither
player can make a legal move.  The winner is the player with the most
pieces on the board.

At the beginning of the game the computer will ask you whether you
wish to have the first move.  After you have answered this question,
the computer will print the board and playing pieces on the screen.
Underneath it will indicate who is having the current turn.  When it
is your turn to place a piece on the board, enter the location of the
square on which you wish to place your circle.  This is done by using
the square's number down the side of the board followed by the number
across the board.  Enter this number as a two digit number such as 45.

The computer will keep track of the score and automatically replace
captured pieces with the opponent’s pieces.  You will find that the
computer plays this game slowly but it will play very well.  In fact
you may find it difficult to win a game against the amazing Commodore
64.
