[This game is Part 1 of 3 of The Sorcerer's Puzzles II.  See
"Abecedarian" and "Turnabout" for Parts 2 and 3.]

(From Color Computer Magazine, July 1983.)

The story of the boy and girl, Poke and Sunflower, began in the April
issue when they arrived at the Sorcerer's castle hoping to become
apprentices.  During the three months since their arrival at the
castle, the twisted, malicious, and generally unpleasant keeper of the
castle, Bob, has put them through several preliminary tests.  The
children have not yet even seen the Sorcerer.

"Good morning, good morning!" Bob greeted a sleepy Sunflower and Poke
as they arrived for the usual porridge breakfast.

"Mrff," said Sunflower.

Poke slammed his spoon on the table.  "Mush!  I hate mush!"

"Now, now," Bob cautioned.  "If you grubby young urchins want to
become sorcerers, you must follow instructions exactly and with great
humility.  After you whitewash the east battlement of the castle you
face more tests."

"For the jillionth time, when do you see the Sorcerer?" Sunflower
asked.

Bob shrugged.  "Perhaps when your work is done... perhaps on
Michaelmas next.  Who am I to presume knowledge of the Sorcerer's
wondrous comings and goings?"

"I thought we were in for excitement and danger when we came here,"
Poke complained.

"Pay no attention to Poke," said Sunflower.

"Oh, but I must.  He'll get excitement and danger when he climbs the
highest spire and paints it."

As he spoke, Bob smiles and turned to leave.  Then he stopped in his
tracks and fell with a shriek to the floor.  Poke and Sunflower looked
up.  Standing in the doorway was a chubby, bald little man dressed in
a rumpled corduroy suit.

"Hello," he said, "any mail arrive for me while I was gone?"

"Behold the mighty Sorcerer," Bob announced as he writhed on the
floor.

The little man put one foot on Bob's prostrate form and lightly
stepped over him, his hand extended.  "I'm Donald E. Goldberg.
Welcome to my castle."

"Do as he says and you won't get hurt," said Bob.  "Don't anger him,
for his wrath is awesome."

"Shush, Bob, and do get up off that cold floor."

"Yes, master.  Thank you master."  Bob leaped to his feet, a manic
smile on his face, and stood fawning at the Sorcerer's elbow.

Sunflower quickly explained how she and Poke came to the castle to
apprentice themselves to the Sorcerer.  She noted they had already
performed three tests.  "And Bob was about to have us whitewash the
castle."

The Sorcerer turned to Bob.  "You were going to have these children
*climb* the castle?"

Bob burst into tears.  "Yes, yes, I admit it!  I'm guilty!  Turn me
into a frog for a month, but please don't throw me into the briar
patch!"

Sorcerer Goldberg frowned.  "Bob, I think it might be good if you
disappeared for a while."  He snapped his fingers and Bob was gone.
"Don't worry," the Sorcerer told the children, "I've just put him on
hold."

Poke and Sunflower exchanged quick glances.  There was no doubt about
the Sorcerer's power.  Sunflower asked, "Well, what about our becoming
apprentices?"

Bob's voice was heard, thoughg he couldn't be seen.  "The girl has a
smart mouth, master.  The boy is stupid, but the girl has a tart
tongue."

The Sorcerer winced and snapped his fingers again; Bob's voice faded.
The little man eyed the pair for a moment.  "Okay," he said, "you're
now my apprentices."

"Wow!" said Poke.

"Surviving three months with Bob proves your worth," said the
Sorcerer.  "But I think we'll have a few more tests to determine your
intelligence."

"Oh, we're really smart," Sunflower said.

The fat little Sorcerer pointed a finger at the wall and a panel
opened.  Out rolled a grand pedestal topped by a thick, aged book.
"Behold 'Wizardry Made Simple'," said the Sorcerer.  "Turn to page
7,640, and you'll find the rules for Disappearing Act, Abecedarian and
Turnabout.  Try them..."  And then like Bob, Sorcerer Goldberg
vanished.

  Disappearing Act

  A three-by-seven grid is drawn.  In the bottom two rows are 14
  playing pieces, all orange except for the blue one in the bottom
  left square.  In the top left square is a green cursor that moves by
  pressing the four arrow keys.  The objects is to eliminate all
  playing pieces but one.  Jumped pieces will disappear.  Diagonal
  jumps are not allowed.  To jump, position the green cursor over the
  piece that will jump, then tap N, W, E or S for the compass
  direction to be jumped.  The jump must be oveer one piece into an
  empty square.  For a double win, make the blue piece the last
  remaining and have the final jump leave it in the top left square.
