FOUR BY FOUR

Skill area: Memory and Logic
Level: 4
Equipment required: None
Modificatlon: Yes

The Race

You're dreaming again, and anything can happen in a dream.  This time
you're the smartest person on earth, and you're on television to match
wits with a computer.  In your dream, you need to know something about
every subject imaginable.  You also must be able to come up with your
answers quickly.  You can't hope to beat a computer unless you're
fast.

How to Play

The computer will select four categories and four letters of the
alphabet.  In each category you then enter a word that begins with the
letter the computer has picked.  An asterisk (*) indicates you can use
any letter to begin a word.  For example, the computer has chosen the
letters A, *, K, and W, and the first category is mammals.  For the
letter A, you select aardvark.  The * is a wild card, so you can type
in the name of any animal.  At first you can't think of an animal
whose name begins with a K, so you skip K for now by pressing the
RETURN key.  (The computer will return to this question later.) For
the W, you type wombat.  Then the next category appears.

After you've gone through all four categories, the unanswered
questions will appear again.  The categories will repeat vmtil one of
three things happens:

  * You've answered all the questions.
  * Your four-minute time limit is up.
  * You type QUIT instead of entering an answer.

Good spelling is not essential for playing "Four by Four."  As long as
you enter a word beginning with the correct letter, the computer will
consider the answer correct.  This puts the responsibility on you to
answer the questions honestly.  You could cheat, but that is not the
object of the game.

When a category asks for people's names, type the person's last name.
For example, when asked for the name of a United States president, you
can't put Zachary Taylor's name in the Z column.  If you draw Z in the
U.S. Presidents category, you'll have to leave that space blank
because there are no presidents whose surnames begin with the letter
Z.

Scoring 

After you've answered all the questions, run out of time, or quit the
round, your score will appear.  The score is based on the number of
correct answers you entered ('correct' means the answer began with the
right letter), along with the time it took you to finish the round.

The computer will also give the high score on all rounds of Four by
Four you've played in this session.  You may only be playing against a
computer in your dream, but in reality you can play against yourself
or against another person.  If you're playing Four hy Four with a
friend, you can play a round and then tell the computer to give your
friend the same categories and letters.  Then you'll see who's the
quickest to come up with answers.
