YARDCHORES

The object of this game is to do your yard chores.  This isn't as easy
as you think, because there's a lot to do and there are backyard pests
that you have to deal with.

This game requires TI Extended BASIC, the 32 K memory expansion, a
disk drive, a joystick, and a speech synthesizer.  A color TV or color
monitor is also helpful.

The object of the game is to completely prepare the yard for summer.
To do this, you must do the following:

    o Seed the entire lawn.
    o Mow the entire lawn.
    o Fertilize the tree.
    o Trim the entire hedge.
    o Kill any aphids that appear on the flowers.

The screen shows a back yard, with the side of the house on the right.
There is a tree in the middle.  The lawn is at the bottom, and it is
bare because no grass has been planted yet.  There is a strip of
garden behind the tree, and a hedge behind the strip of garden.  You
can see where the flowers are just beginning to poke themselves out of
the soil in the garden.

There is a pesky goat wandering around the back yard.  He wants to eat
the bark off of the tree. If you don't keep him away, he'll eat the
bark and you'll lose the game.

At the bottom of the screen is the information panel.  This panel
shows your current score and the current high score; the time (in
approximate seconds); and any warnings.

The time is very important.  You only have 3000 seconds (approximately
50 minutes) to complete your chores.

On the left-hand side of the screen are your tools.  From the top,
these tools are:

    o A raindrop.
    o Hedge shears.
    o The gunsight of a bug shooter.
    o A bag of fertilizer.
    o A lawnmower.
    o A chain for the goat.
    o A seeder.

To select a tool, move the yellow square by holding the joystick up or
down.  Then, when the yellow square is behind the tool that you want,
press the FIRE button (or Q on the keyboard).  You have approximately
40 seconds in which to use the tool.

To seed and mow the lawn, first take out the seeder and move it while
holding down the FIRE button.  A small patch of grass is deposited
behind the seeder as you move it.  Then, you must take the lawn mower
and mow each patch of grass to make each one fill out its section of
the lawn.  Hold down the FIRE button as you move the lawnmower to mow
the lawn.

To trim the hedge, take the hedge shears and move back and forth,
cutting the hedge by holding down the FIRE button.  The shears will
snip away merrily.  You can't start right away, as it takes some time
for the hedge to begin growing.  You have to snip each section of the
hedge twice to completely cut it back.

The tree is fertilized by taking the bag of fertilizer and dropping it
onto the tree's roots, by pressing the FIRE button.  If you miss the
roots, nothing will happen.  You will know when you have hit the roots
when the tree breaks out into flowers.

The flowers in the garden in front of the hedge take a long time to
grow.  They will grow faster when you aren't puttering around the yard
doing your chores.  Just before each flower gets ready to bloom, it
puts out a big bud.  Then an aphid comes along and attaches itself to
the plant stem.  (The aphid looks sort of like a tiny green bunny
rabbit climbing on the right-hand side of the stem.)  The poor flower
can't bloom while the aphid is attached to it, so you have to take the
bug shooter and shoot the aphid.  When you do that, the flower blooms.

While you are working in the yard, you have to keep your eye on the
pesky goat.  To move him, select the chain and bring it over to him.
Then press the FIRE button.  Move the chain and the goat to where you
want to put the goat, and then press the FIRE button once again.  If
you have the speech synthesizer attached, you will hear the goat
bleat.

The other thing you have to watch out for is the lawn drying up.  The
lawn will first turn yellow, then red.  If you don't water the lawn at
all, it will completely dry up and disappear, and you'll have to start
all over again.  To water the lawn, simply select the raindrop and
press the FIRE button.  The lawn will then be okay for another 200 to
300 seconds.

Enjoy doing your yard chores!

This game was found in a collection of old TI disk images.

The original image name and path was "0090.dsk/YARDCHORES".

The game is in TI Extended BASIC, and is credited in March 1986 to
Milo Tsukroff.
