The L-game is a 2-player strategic game played on a 4x4 grid.  It was
originally devised by Edward de Bono and appeared in the book, "The
Five-Day Course in Thinking."  In the game, each player has one 'L'
which covers four squares (3 high x 2 across).  The two L's are
labelled differently to avoid confusion.  There are also two neutral
'boxes' each the size of a single square on the grid.  To play the
game with the computer the grid positions must be numbered as follows:

    +----+----+----+----+
    |  1 |  2 |  3 |  4 |
    +----+----+----+----+
    |  5 |  6 |  7 |  8 |
    +----+----+----+----+
    |  9 | 10 | 11 | 12 |
    +----+----+----+----+
    | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 |
    +----+----+----+----+

Play always begins with all the pieces on the board in this position:

    +----+----+----+----+
    |####|@@@@@@@@@|  4 |
    +----+@@@@+----+----+
    |  5 |@@@@|XXXX|  8 |
    +----+@@@@+XXXX+----+
    |  9 |@@@@|XXXX| 12 |
    +----+----+XXXX+----+
    | 13 |XXXXXXXXX|####|
    +----+----+----+----+

The object of the game is simply to position one's L and the neutral
boxes to pin the other player's L.  Each move is a mixture of offense
and defense, for one is not only trying to pin the other player's L,
but also trying to prevent his own L from being pinned.

Either player may move first.  To move, one must pick up his L and
move it to a different position on the board.  The player may flip his
L over, rotate it 90 degrees, etc.  The L must not cover any other
pieces or hang off the edge of the board.  If a player is unable to
move his L, or simply cannot find a move, he loses the game.  Once the
player has successfully moved his L to a new position on the board, he
then has the option of moving the neutral boxes.  He may move the
boxes only to unoccupied positions and he has the option of moving one
box, both boxes, or leaving the boxes where they are.  By using the
boxes effectively, one can block off moves for the other player's L
and possibly pin him.  After the player moves the boxes (or decides
not to move one or both) it is the other player's turn and play
continues in the same manner.

The computer version of the L Game was written by Bill Gardner.
