Gunners

Gunners is simple and saucy, quick to code and fun to play, especially
for those just breaking the two digit age barrier.

The game of Gunners was inspired by that commercialized plastic
board-and-peg game called Battleship, which was itself no doubt
inspired by that pencil-and-paper game of the same name.  Instead of
each player having to keep track of all of those little boats, though,
each gunner has only one weapon -- a tank.  The idea of ten-by-ten
grids is retained, and the players trade shots in an effort to blow
away each other's tank.  Thus the similarity to the game played with
warships.

There are other differences.  In Gunners the computer picks the grid
locations for each contestant and provides spotter reports after each
shot is fired.  Printed out advice such as "low left" or "high right"
is meant to help the gunner to lob successive rounds onto his
opponent.

The phantom spotter's vocabulary is limited to just four clues: high,
low, left, and right.  The report may include only one of these, or it
may be of the form mentioned above, using a pair of words.  Because
the grids are formed as intersecting columns and rows, once the clues
fall into a one-word format all following shots that proceed along the
indicated column or row are bound to score.

Lady Luck does pose a hazard to either player, but fortunately with
equal odds for both.  It is possible to score a direct hit with a
single shot, and it is equally possible to home in on the correct
column or row at the outset.  Over the long run, however, the players
with the best strategies are likely to win more often than they lose.
We will leave it to the eventual players of Gunners to determine what
the best firing patterns are.  Our purpose here is to help you get the
game up and running.
