THE HAMBURGER CONTEST

For Parents and Teachers...

This game helps children practice multiplication.

The computer draws from one to nine hamburgers and from one to nine
people.  It asks, for example, if four people eat three hamburgers
each, how many hamburgers are eaten?

For Kids...

Do you like hamburgers? 

I hope so, because you've been elected by your school to go to the
first national KIDS' HAMBURGER EATING CONTEST.

You go to Washington, D.C.  You and eight other children sit down at a
huge picnic table.  On top of the table are nine stacks of juicy
hamburgers.  The stacks of burgers are so high that they reach into
the sky.

The President of the United States comes to the table, wishes you all
good luck, and fires a pistol into the sky.  You and the other
children start munching burgers.

Half an hour later, the President fires the pistol again.  "Boy!" he
says.  "A lot of burgers were eaten here today.  You each ate seven
burgers, and there are nine of you.  If nine people each eat seven
burgers, how many burgers are eaten?"

You still have a half-eaten burger in your mouth.  But you have the
answer.  You raise your hand.  "MFFF!" you say.

"What was that?" the President asks.

You spit the hamburger out of your mouth.  Now you can talk.  "63!"
you yell.  "63 hamburgers."

"RIGHT!" says the President.

Background...

The Hamburger Contest game was designed by Mack McGhee, a student at
Patrick Henry High School in Roanoke, Virginia.

Mack writes: "Working on this program was a small adventure for me.
When I began taking computer science at the beginning of this year, I
never dreamed that after only a couple months I would be writing a
computer program for a book.

"After changing the program many times and completely starting over
once, I noticed the deadline approaching.  My teacher, David James,
began taking us home from school at 5 or 6 every night.  He carried
the class's one computer to all the different kids' houses.  Sometimes
he would arrive with the computer at my house as late as 10:30 PM.
Once, on a school night, I worked on my program until 2:30 in the
morning.

"Doing this program was a good experience.  I hope you have as much
fun playing it as I did making it."
