NUMBERS ALIGNMENT 

This program is seen in many different forms.  Most use the numbers 1
through 5, but this one is expanded to include numbers 1 through 9.
The numbers will be displayed in random order.  The player's job is to
align these numbers in sequential order (1-9).

When the program is first run, you will see a random pattern, such as

    9 1 2 4 7 3 5 6 8 

When this display is complete, a prompt will appear asking WHICH
NUMBER.  The number you select will completely rearrange this pattern.
Let's assume that you select 4, given the display shown above.  The
screen will clear, and a new pattern, which is no longer chosen at
random but determined by the previous random pattern and the number
you selected will be generated.  The 4 that you selected will result
in a display of

    4 2 1 9 7 3 5 6 8

You can see here that the number selected automatically goes to the
front of the string, and all numbers that previously preceded it now
follow it.  All numbers to the left of the one chosen are left in the
same order.  I will not explain this program further, because it will
give you a clue as to how it may be deciphered.  Here is one of the
few programs included in this book that depends on intelligence and
does not give the programmer a playing advantage.  In other words, by
inputting these program lines, you will still have the same amount of
difficulty in solving each sequence as someone with no programming
skills at all.

While I won't give you a hint, I will say that any sequence displayed
by the computer can be rearranged in sequential order.  As soon as you
get the idea, you will be able to solve any sequence quite easily.
The simple trick to a quick solution may take a half hour or more, but
most players will eventually catch on.  From there on out, it's a
matter of two players with similar experience trying to outdo each
other.  Each time the sequence is solved, the computer will tell you
how many moves it took you to arrive at the solution.
