[Note: This program has been adapted from the original to run in TI
Extended BASIC.  Some compromises had to be made to compensate for the
smaller range of redefinable characters.]


TYPING SYMBOLS

  by C. Regena

Welcome to QWERTY Academy -- the school where everyone can either
learn typing, or improve their existing typing skills.  The Academy
was named after the first six letters (left to right) on the second
row of keys found on a standard typewriter.  The instructors at QWERTY
are probably already familiar to you.  In fact, most of you are
sharing your home with one right now.  That's right -- a Texas
Instruments TI-99/4 personal computer, whose color graphics and sound
capabilities make it one teacher you'll actually have fun learning
from...

There are several differences between the TI-99/4 keyboard and a
standard typewriter keyboard.  Beginners won't have to worry about
this until switching to a regular typewriter.  At that point, the
necessary adjustments are easy to make.  Those of you who already
"touch type" should learn the special fingering procedures needed for
efficient typing on the TI keyboard.  This will permit your letter
writing to go faster, with fewer mistakes, and allow you to enter code
more efficiently with fewer syntax errors when programming.

One main difference in the keyboards is that there is not a "home" key
for the right little finger ("pinky") to rest upon.  A "dummy" key is
available (on a overlay from Texas Instruments) to help solve this
problem.  Another difference is the placement of the ENTER key: The
TI-99/4 computer has the ENTER key where the typewriter has a SHIFT
key (or where the period would be if you're using a dummy key), so a
typist may tend to ENTER more than he or she wishes.  And when, for
example, a comma is needed, a typist must use a left-hand SHIFT to
have it print correctly.  Also, since there isn't a SHIFT key for the
right hand, the symbols on the left side of the keyboard require
pressing the SHIFT key with the left little finger, and pressing the
symbol with either the left index or middle finger.

The instructional program that follows assumes that its users are
already familiar with touch-typing techniques and just need to learn
and practice the symbols on the TI-99/4 keyboard.  A series of
programs for teaching touch typing to beginners will commence in the
next issue.  In the meantime, beginners can practice with the symbols
if they wish, or can save the program until after mastering the
alphabetic keys.  There will be versions (with only slight
differences) for both the TI-99/4, and the new, soon-to-be-available
TI-99/4A with its standard typewriter keyboard.  This magazine will
also provide programs for experienced touch typists who wish to
improve their proficiency.

The Program 

The program starts with the period (decimal), the only symbol that
does not require the SHIFT key, and progresses through the other
symbols.  Suggested fingering for each of the symbols is presented.
fter each symbol or set of symbols is presented, there is a practice
drill which includes the new symbol and previously learned symbols.

Each drill consists of actual phrases and statements that a programmer
would use.  You must type five phrases correctly to complete the drill
and move on to the next lesson.  A phrase is chosen randomly from nine
phrases entered as data, and it is printed on the screen.  After the
prompter "beep," you must copy the phrase.  If you type the phrase
correctly, that phrase will not be used again; but if you type it
incorrectly, it may be used again until a total of five phrases are
correctly typed.

Because only a left-hand SHIFT key is available, the left little
finger presses the SHIFT key and the middle finger presses the !, @,
and # keys.  You may prefer to use the index finger on %, $, and # and
the third finger on ! and @, and also use the right index finger for ?
rather than the left.  After most of the symbols have been presented,
six of the rarely used symbols are listed with their suggested
fingering.  There is not a drill for the final six symbols because
they do not appear in programming statements other than perhaps a
PRINT statement or a variable name.  You press any symbol to continue
the program.

After all the symbols have been introduced, you have a choice of
starting the instruction over, having a final review, or ending the
program.  The final review consists of ten phrases or statements
chosen randomly from the fifteen possibilities.  You type the ten
statements, and are given a score of number right and number wrong.

The program uses color graphics and sound to enhance the instruction.
Musical phrases from Chopin's "Fantasie Impromptu" are played at the
title screens and after each drill.
