OPPOSITES

Good Reinforcement Means You Can't Frown at Me!

(Mr. Blyn, who leaches both exceptional and gifted children, holds two
Master's degrees in the field of education and has won an award for
the design of a computer program to aid handicapped children.  He and
his wife Cheryl, own Computer Island.)

Reinforcement is a very important component of all teaching programs.
It is a terrific feature of computers in that they can provide endless
and immediate rewards for answers.

The computer never loses patience or tires of telling us whether we
were right or wrong.  The immediate reinforcement given by computers
is much more effective than the long-awaited reinforcement that
teachers can give by marking test papers.  Often, by the time a test
is graded, the student has already forgotten which answers he used.
Reinforcement can be either positive or negative.  Positive
reinforcers are pleasant events that follow a desired response.  Happy
faces and pleasant sounds are good examples of this.  Their effect is
to increase the chances that the person will make a similar response
again to a similar question or situation.

Negative reinforcers are unpleasant events that follow an undesired
response.  Their effect, however, also increases the chance of the
desired response.  The person tries to escape the negative reinforcer
and aims for the positive one.

Sad or unhappy faces are thought to be good examples of negative
reinforcers.  Herein lies the mistake often unwittingly put into
educational programs!

When children begin to use new software, they are fascinated with the
positive reinforcers used by the programmer.  After a while, however,
they sometimes get bored or adventuresome and begin to "check out" the
negative ones.

It is the natural playfulness and curiosity of kids that leads them
down this path.  It has nothing to do with whether they know the right
answers.  Often, to everyone's surprise, the negative reinforcers are
more attractive than the positive ones,

Sad, unhappy, frowning faces are often more amusing to see than the
happy one.  The bad sounds may have become more entertaining than the
good sounds.  When this situation occurs the reinforcers are
counterproductive and learning ceases.

The important consideration when writing educational programs which
will help children learn is to keep your rewards appropriate to their
function.  Make certain that your positive rewards are enjoyable to
the player.  Check to be sure that your negative reinforcers are not
too entertaining.  Inform the user that he has made a wrong response
by using appropriate sounds to indicate an incorrect answer.

It is wise to further reinforce the response that you want by showing
the correct answer to each wrong response.  Therefore, immediately
indicate the correct answer.  Between the unpleasant noises and the
correct answer appearing anyway, the user will not be anxious to
purposely give wrong responses.  Your program will then be used in the
manner in which you intended.

The accompanying program, OPPOSITES, illustrates the use of happy
sounds and a happy face for positive reinforcement.  Incorrect
responses receive several unpleasant sounds, no picture and the right
answer.

Other positive reinforers might be a well-known song for each right
answer, or a little game to play after a series of right answers.  An
example of the wrong thing to do would be to program the song Taps for
an incorrect response.  Taps is great for a game program, but has no
place in a teaching program.

Although this program was designed for antonyms, it can just as easily
be used for synonyms by changing half of the data and some of the
program's wording.  Other obvious uses would be for reading, social
studies, science, spelling or math vocabulary words and their
definitions.

Experiment with this program.  You may convert or enlarge it, try
various rewards, and make it suit your purposes.
