CRYPTO

Crypto is a decoding game in which the computer substitutes a
different letter for each letter in the alphabet.  Short sentences or
phrases included in data statements within the program are then
encoded and displayed on the screen.  The player is to figure out the
code and then type the decoded message using the keyboard.  The
computer will then examine the answer given by the player and indicate
whether it is right or wrong.  If it is incorrect, the correct message
will also be displayed.

Code deciphering games have been popular for hundreds of years, and
even today syndicated columns that supply code games appear in many
American newspapers.  This one works very much like the printed games,
and the computer is used to come up with an infinite number of coding
structures.

This game uses a randomly selected substitution code.  This means that
one letter of the alphabet is substituted for another.  For instance,
the word HELLO may appear as RHUUQ.  Here, the R is substituted for
the letter H, the H for the letter E, the U for the letter L, and the
Q for the letter O.  Notice that in the word HELLO, the two Ls are
represented by two Us.  The substitution holds true throughout the
entire mystery phrase.  In other words, if U represents the letter L
in one word, U will always represent the letter L.  A substitution
code should not be confused with what is often called a midpoint code.
This latter coding method follows the logical progression of the
alphabet.  However, instead of starting with A, the coded alphabet may
start with S.  Given this midpoint coding example, the letter B would
then be represented by the letter T, the letter C by the letter U, and
so forth.  When the end of the midpoint code alphabet is reached at
the coded letter Z, the next real letter will be represented by the
code letter A and then B, and so forth.

This program uses the RND function of TI BASIC to randomly select a
substitute letter for every letter of the standard alphabet.  There is
no pattern to this selection other than random chance, so midpoint
coding is not in effect, and midpoint deciphering techniques will not
work.  You can, however, gain clues from words that contain
apostrophes and also from the repetition of letters in any coded
phrase.  Also, a single letter that begins a sentence, such as A BOY
RAN DOWN THE STREET, can give you a clue to the code.  The letter A in
this sentence might be coded with the letter T.  However, it is used
alone, so you might assume that the letter is either an I, as in I RAN
DOWN THE STREET, or an A, as in the example above.  These are the only
two letters in the alphabet that may be used individually in a
sentence.  From this point on, you should examine the shortest words
and then go on to the longest.  Some codes may be deciphered in five
or ten minutes, while others may take you an hour or more.  Each time
you run the program, the same messages contained in the data
statements will be coded in a different manner.

It is quite easy to remove the data statements and allow a phrase to
be input in plain language via the keyboard.  This message, which
would be represented by R$, would then be put through the standard
coding process.  This modification would involve two players, one who
will input the message to be coded and the other who would tackle the
deciphering assignment.  On the next turn, the players would switch
roles.
