CHECKERS

The game of CHECKERS has a long and honorable history.  R. C. Bell (in
his book "Discovering Old Board Games", Shire Publications, Aylesbury,
UK, 1980) says it was invented around 1100, "probably in the south of
France, using Backgammon tablemen on a chequered chessboard with the
Alquerque method of capture" (pp. 35-36).  The "Encyclopedia of
Sports, Games and Pastimes" (Fleetway House, London, c. 1935) puts it
much further back in time: "Forms of it were known in ancient Egypt,
Greece and Rome, while the game was played in the mid-seventeenth
century much as it is today" (p. 237).*

Regardless of its age, it is a very popular game around the world,
with many European countries having regional variations on the game of
their own.  Continental draughts (checkers is generally known as
draughts outside the US), for example, is played on a board of 100
squares with each player starting the game with 20 pieces.  It was
developed in the early 1700s.

This CHECKERS program plays the game you are probably most familiar
with. It plays swiftly, and reasonably well, although its lack of
endgame strategy often leads to a dramatic collapse in the final
moments of a game.

CHECKERS is played between you and the computer.  Each of you is
attempting to take (that is jump over to capture, then remove from the
board) the other player's pieces, or to confine the opponent's pieces
so no more moves are possible.

The game is generally played on a board with 64 squares, which are
alternately light and dark.  In this program, the board (as you can
see from the sample game we have shortly) is a series of dots, with
your pieces shown as H's (for human) and the machine's pieces as C's
(for clever).

When the game begins, you're at the bottom of the screen, playing up,
and the computer is at the top playing down.  As the program is
currently set up, the computer always has the first move.  If you want
the first move then delete line 50.

All moves must be made along diagonals. Individual pieces can only
move forward, that is, toward the opponent's starting side.  Pieces
are converted into "kings" when they reach the back rank across the
board. Your kings are shown as K's, the computer's kings are dollar
signs.  Kings can move either forward or back.  After capturing a
piece, by jumping over it into the vacant square immediately behind
the captured piece, you can move again if there is a further capture
which can be made.

* Both these books are very fine resources for game ideas to turn into
  computer programs.  R. C. Bell's book (and others by that author) is
  particularly recommended.  The Encyclopedia has been out of print
  for many years, but you may find a copy of it in a secondhand shop.
  It was very widely distributed in the UK in the late 'thirties, and
  includes much fascinating information, including full details on how
  to build and fly your own airplane.
