[This game is Part 1 of 3 of The Sorcerer's Puzzles.  See "Red Rover"
and "Firecracker" for Parts 2 and 3.]

(From Color Computer Magazine, April 1984.)

After a long and perilous journey across the Darklands the girl named
Sunflower and the boy named Poke climbed the mountain and stood at the
castle's massive door behgind which lived the Sorceror.

"You knock," said Poke.

"No, you knock," said Sunflower.  "I chased the dragons away.  That's
enough for one day."

Poke shrugged and knocked on the door.

After long minutes the massive door swung slowly open.  A man stood
before them; a miscreated wreck of a human being -- a twisted, hunched
creature with an eyepatch, a haystack of hair and a crooked grin.

"What do you want?" The creature asked them.

"We've come to see the Sorceror," Sunflower said.  "We wish to
apprentice ourselves to learn his craft."

The creature named Bob signed.  "Quelle Triste!  Never a day passes
without the door being darkened by those who flock here thinking it's
so simple to be a Sorcerer.  Mumbo Jumbo!  Presto Chango, eh?  Well
let me tell you..."

"We'd like to speak to the Sorcerer," Poke interrupted.  Then he
added, "if you please," and then "sir."

"It's not that simple!" roared Bob.  "Nothing is simple."

"Tell us what to do," said Sunflower.  "And we'll do it."

"Come in so I can shut the door," Bob told them.

"You may not meet the Sorcerer for years.  And you certainly won't see
him if you don't pass the tests."

"Tests?" said Sunflower.

Bob thrust his head at the tired girl.  "You don't know about the
tests?"

"No," they said in unison.

"Follow me to the Great Hall," Bob said, curling a crooked finger at
them.

On the velvet-covered table in the Great Hall was a row of seven
softly glowing stones.  The four on the left were orange.  The three
on the right were blue.

"These are magic color stones.  Pass your hand along the table.  At a
point between any two stones, press the table gently and the two
stones to left and right above your hand will exchange colors.

"If a stone is blue, it becomes orange.  If it's orange, it becomes
blue."

"And the test?" Sunflower asked.

"Make the fewest color-changing moves to order the stones so that no
two of the same color are adjacent."

"I think I know what you mean," said Poke.  "The ending order must be
orange-blue-orange-blue-orange-blue-orange."

  Seven stones will be drawn on your computer's screen.  The white
  cursor below the stones represents your hand and can be moved by
  pressing the left and right arrow keys.  When the hand reaches the
  desired position, press M, and the colors of the two stones to the
  left and right in the row above will change.  The program also
  generates a display of your moves as a series of numbers.  Put the
  stones in the stipulated order in the fewest possible moves. --
  Sorcerer's note.
