MALIBU

Roll the dice now for a few rounds of Malibu. You and the computer
take it in turns to roll three dice each.  Various dice combinations,
and the total of the three dice, are worth points.  For example, if
the total of the pips showing is 13 ("Lucky Joe") on the computer's
dice, the computer gets six points, and the human loses six points.

You start the game with 50 points each, and there are five rounds to a
game.  As I said, there are certain winning combinations (such as
three sixes, called a "high roller") and certain winning totals (such
as 9 or 12, a "straight road").  You can score more than once from a
single roll, so if your total of nine was gained by rolling two fours
and a one, you'd get the "straight road" score of three, plus another
three for getting "two of a kind."

The only exception to this is rolling three of a kind ("triple
crown").  You can score most of the other possible combinations,
although you cannot get "two of a kind" and "triple crown" from the
same roll.

Now this may all seem very confusing.  It is much easier to play than
it is to read about, because the computer rolls the dice for you,
works out what the score should be, and keeps the tally.  All you have
to do is bite your fingernails as you watch the computer defeating
you.  Here's a complete list of the winning throws (and remember that
when one player gains a certain number of points, they must come off
the other player's total, so the totals always add up to 100):

         Total                       Name                   Points

13 plus a pair ..................... Sough .................... 10
       6 or 15 ..................... Easy Rider ................ 4
       9 or 12 ..................... Straight Road ............. 3
  All the same ..................... Triple Crown .............. 5
  Two the same ..................... Two of a Kind ............. 3
            13 ..................... Lucky Joe ................. 6
             3 ..................... Low and Mean .............. 7
            18 ..................... High Roller .............. 12
	    
The only losing throw is a seven ("Dreaded Seven"), which costs you
two points, and adds two to your opponent.
